"content": "Johnson Controls (JCI) is a global technology and industrial leader that’s been transforming environments and making buildings smarter since 1885. With billions of dollars in worldwide sales and thousands of employees across hundreds of locations, JCI offers the world’s largest portfolio of innovative building products, technologies, software, and services. <strong>Industry</strong>: Industrial Equipment<strong><br>Employees</strong>: 10,000+<strong><br>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2018<strong><br>Use case</strong>: Cost Reduction — Value Analysis/Value Engineering (VA/VE) When the pandemic first hit, Johnson Controls needed to make a quick pivot. Up until that point, JCI’s cost reduction strategy had revolved around in-person VA/VE events requiring global travel. Suddenly travel was no longer an option, yet it was more important than ever to stay on track with cost reduction targets. “VA/VE is one of our big priorities,” says Brian Stauffer, Global Product Design Manager. “With the pandemic, we had a unique situation where we weren’t able to travel to the factories anymore but we wanted to continue the VA savings that we’ve been getting.” Although JCI’s Applied HVAC Equipment division had started using CoLab for design reviews prior to the pandemic, they hadn’t yet considered adopting CoLab for VA/VE. “We used to do VA events live at the factories,” explains Stauffer. “When we did this in person, like we used to in the past — we dedicated a couple days to it, we flew people in, and they focused their time for that day or two to come up with as many ideas as they could.” With global travel off the table, JCI needed a solution that would allow them to move to a digital model so they could continue holding VA/VE events. “Because of Covid, our travel budget had been cut to pretty much nothing,” notes Stauffer. “We needed a way to communicate globally with a large number of folks at the same time.” To make the shift from in-person events to virtual VA/VE, the Johnson Controls team needed more than just a communication tool. They also needed a way to make design data easily accessible to everyone involved, especially those with no access to Creo and/or limited experience with CAD in general. However, given the complex and 3D nature of JCI’s product line, basic tools for file sharing and collaboration simply didn’t cut it. “Having the real model and actually being able to measure things and hide things — with other tools, that’s been a pain,” remarks Brian McMaster, Mechanical Design Lead. “Our engineers had to just look at PDFs and get their best view possible. Some would ask for 3D PDFs, but they’re still not great.” So JCI turned to CoLab for a virtual VA/VE solution. ‍ The Johnson Controls team moved quickly to identify what they truly needed in a solution. “We wanted a tool we could access independently and collaboratively to do these reviews. That was something we were looking for,” comments Stauffer. “Getting more familiar with the software, I started thinking CoLab was the perfect solution. It seemed like the best fit for hosting VA/VE events that were virtual instead of in person.” As a browser-based cloud tool, CoLab makes it simple for everyone to stay in the loop — whether working together in real-time, asynchronously, or a hybrid combination. “Multiple people can be in there at the same time, which is very beneficial for us,” observes Stauffer. For any file, the full history of revisions and discussion is easily viewable and automatically kept up-to-date. “With a global engineering and manufacturing organization, it’s critical that we can keep all parties on the same page,” says Mike Zamalis, VP Global Chiller Product Engineering. “With CoLab we have that ability to have various functional groups around the world all reviewing and commenting, live or around the clock, on the same exact model.” Compared to the traditional in-person model, doing VA/VE virtually in CoLab also makes it possible to include a broader range of people and perspectives. “With CoLab, now we can open this up to a lot more people than we could when traveling to the factories,” Stauffer points out.&nbsp; By eliminating the travel costs associated with VA/VE events, CoLab allows JCI not only to include more people — but also to hold events on a more frequent basis, rather than a couple times per year. Additionally, CoLab lets the JCI team take a more continuous approach to the events themselves. “We were able to extend the timeframe to come up with ideas, so people can actually work at their own pace,” says Stauffer. “Instead of being trapped in a room for two or three days, this lets you do it over more of a two-week period.” Another way CoLab makes it possible for more people to participate in VA/VE events is by lowering the technical barrier to entry. “Being a web-based tool, there is no software distribution nor installation and very little training,” Zamalis comments. “It is VERY intuitive with easy-to-understand icons. We typically ‘train’ during one of our event kickoff sessions.” “Users that aren’t familiar with Creo, or don’t have access to Creo models, can now actually spin the models around individually,” adds Stauffer. “You can spin the model around, you can isolate components, you can explode things, you can do cross-sections — things that, typically, you wouldn’t get to see when primarily on the factory floor.”<br>‍ ‍ Along with wider participation and greater access to 3D models, using CoLab to communicate about design helps minimize the potential for miscommunications and mistakes “The ability to actually pinpoint an issue, like <em>this pipe</em> or <em>this sheet metal</em> or <em>this whatever</em> is the problem, and CoLab takes you directly to that component — that’s big,” emphasizes McMaster. As McMaster puts it: “Being international, we have different terms for the exact same part between China, US, Mexico, wherever. So in the past you might spend a day going back and forth on email, just because you say a part and they don’t understand what you’re talking about because they call it something different. Now, being able to pinpoint a part, there’s really no way to confuse that anymore.” Yet beyond making it possible to generate more (and better) ideas, CoLab also makes it easier to prioritize actions and get ideas implemented. For any drawing or model, a side panel will display all feedback associated with that file. For each piece of feedback, users can enter and update as much information as they need. “We can set priorities, we can set statuses, and we can assign due dates,” describes Stauffer. “You can attach JPEGs, you can attach PDF files, and even snapshots of the actual model itself.” And since CoLab’s Track table offers a bird’s-eye view of all your feedback and reviews, it’s easy to zoom out and prioritize your next steps. “Basically we take all the ideas at the end of the event, and we have product management and our lead product engineer go through the activities and suggestions that were made,” explains Stauffer. “Then we actually come up with priority lists and cost targets and stuff like that. We identify which ideas we’re going to implement, and what order we’re going to implement them in.” ‍ Just by making the switch from in-person events to virtual VA/VE in CoLab, JCI started seeing tangible value almost right away. “We’ve been using this for over a year now for VA/VE events,” Stauffer notes. “And what we’ve actually seen is: we get a better benefit out of doing it virtually than we would have typically on the factory floor.” With CoLab, it’s easier and more cost-effective to facilitate VA/VE events than it was before. Which means: As a result of using CoLab, the Johnson Controls team has seen an uptick in idea generation. “We’re getting a lot more ideas coming forward,” says Stauffer. “Now, we’re not limiting the timeframe to a two-day window. We’re not spending money to send people around the world to be able to do these events. And we’re actually getting more content, by having the ability to let people just do this at their own pace.” Beyond the upfront savings on travel costs, shifting to a virtual format has made it possible to open up VA/VE participation to a much bigger and broader group. That means more people able to contribute ideas, and more diverse perspectives being included. “Adding additional people has really expanded our collection of ideas,” remarks Stauffer. “We can have people included in the events now who typically wouldn’t have been able to be there before. So we’re getting more ideas, coming from a broader group of people and a more cross-functional team.” Not only has CoLab made it easy to involve more people, it’s also opened up new ways of collaborating. By bringing everyone’s ideas together in one spot — easily accessible to all and updated in real-time — CoLab creates space for more collaborative interactions to happen. “People can actually see what others are suggesting, and maybe add onto it, where we didn’t really have that interaction in the past,” Stauffer explains. “Now you can actually see the comments that others have already made, as you go and as you review on your own. And that may spark other things in your head, now that you saw somebody else’s ideas.” Plus, by giving more people a way to view and explore 3D models, CoLab makes it possible for everyone to engage meaningfully and get the information they need to contribute their expertise. As Stauffer observes: “People that didn’t necessarily have access to the 3D data before, they now have the ability to open up a model, spin it around, make comments, et cetera. That’s been fantastic.” It’s also easier now to communicate both quickly <em>and</em> clearly. Ideas are always shared with full context, right on the design file, so there’s no confusion about what’s being discussed. “It’s been great. It’s a better communication tool. It’s looking at models, looking at drawings, and people can make comments right on them, so there’s no misinterpretation of what we’re talking about,” emphasizes Stauffer. “We all speak the same language when we’re looking at a model. Right?” Overall: virtual VA/VE in CoLab has helped Johnson Controls to thrive in challenging conditions, rather than just survive. Even with ambitious targets and rising external pressures, the JCI team has used CoLab to continue consistently hitting their numbers. “CoLab has proven to be successful,” reflects Stauffer. “Using this for VA/VE events has been a big savings on our part.”&nbsp; More than the software alone, Johnson Control values their partnership with CoLab. “I definitely think we’ve had a good working relationship. Anything that we throw at CoLab, they’ve been able to respond very quickly,” Stauffer notes. “CoLab is more than willing to jump in and help anywhere they can, which is a huge deal for me.”&nbsp; And, given the success JCI has found with CoLab so far, it’s a partnership with definite potential for growth. “We’re looking at ways we can utilize this more on a day-to-day basis rather than just VA/VE,” states Stauffer. “I’m excited about getting it in more people’s hands,” adds McMaster. “It makes everybody so much more efficient. With times being the way they were, there was a huge opportunity for us to get worse at efficiency, and I feel like this tool has allowed us to do the opposite.”&nbsp; ‍",
"url": "https://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/johnson-controls-builds-industry-leading-engineering-change-and-design-review-process",
"title": "Case Study: Johnson Controls + CoLab"

"content": "Mainspring Energy is delivering a breakthrough new category of clean power generation with its linear generators for commercial, industrial, and grid-side customers. Founded in 2010 by three Stanford engineers, Mainspring focuses on accelerating the arrival of the clean electric grid by delivering local, scalable, low-cost, and fuel-flexible power. <strong>Industry</strong>: Industrial Equipment<br>‍<strong>Employees</strong>: 200-500<br>‍<strong>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2022<br>‍<strong>Use case</strong>: <a href=\"/use-case/design-review\">Design Review</a>; <a href=\"/use-case/cost-reduction\">Cost Reduction</a> In 2022, Mainspring Energy was actively looking to more than double their development speed. Kevin Walters, Mainspring’s Senior Director of Hardware Engineering, had been given a mandate by the company’s COO to make it happen. “That was something that was always on my mind,” Walters says. “I'm often thinking, what can I do to make the team more efficient? I can hire as many people as I can justify, but it's a competitive job market and adding more people to the team isn't the only thing we need to do to go faster.” Then, while trying to source candidates on LinkedIn, Walters stumbled across CoLab. Although he wasn’t necessarily looking for a design review solution, the pain points on CoLab’s website resonated. “The way we were doing our work is, I think, the same way that everyone else has traditionally been doing their work,” Walters remarks. “An engineer comes up with a design based on the requirements they have, and they do that design in their CAD tool; we use SolidWorks. Then they're going to take screenshots from SolidWorks, put that into a slide deck, and send that slide deck around for comments.” While the team uses the Google ecosystem for internal collaboration, most communication with suppliers was happening via email. Slide decks would be converted into PDFs and design input would be emailed back and forth. “It all ends up being a slow process,” recalls Walters. “It also forced a lot of live meetings because it can be so hard to get the right screenshot that really gets the design intent across,” Walters continues. “So then you’re getting 10 people in a conference room for an hour. You're going to have your doc up on the screen and you're going to try to load it up in SolidWorks. And with really big CAD models, that doesn’t always work smoothly or fast.” This process — driven by screenshots, slide decks, and live meetings — is familiar for most engineering and manufacturing teams today. As Walters puts it: “That's how we were doing things, but we knew there had to be a better way.” Mainspring realized there was a big opportunity to <strong>speed up product development </strong>by streamlining their design review and engineering collaboration processes. “This is a really deep cross-functional problem because it's not just mechanical engineers designing things, but we have other engineering teams that we're interfacing with — electrical, software, systems, controls — and then we also have our supply chain team and our suppliers,” explains Walters. “Those are all stakeholders in the design process.” Working so closely with other engineering teams, it was also hard to ignore the difference in collaboration tools for hardware versus software. “I sit next to our head of software and controls, and I see the tools that they use for tagging issues and branching and merging and managing their code, and doing agile development,” Walters notes. “It really drove home how the mechanical side could be better automated and made far more efficient.” So, after closely evaluating CoLab and comparing it head-to-head with another solution, the Mainspring team decided to move forward with adopting CoLab. ‍ As part of Mainspring’s overall efforts to double product development speed, CoLab provides a <strong>repeatable process</strong> for faster and more effective design reviews. “From my perspective, if it's not going to help us double our speed — then we're not going to do it,” emphasizes Walters. “I don't do things because they're fun or they sound cool. I need to have a really sound reason to think that it's going to help us go faster, help us succeed.” The company’s linear generators are complex, with over 3000 unique parts in the bill of materials. There are roughly 30 mechanical engineers on the direct team, 10 to 20 external resources doing design work, plus a range of multidisciplinary collaborators and external suppliers. With so many moving parts (literally and figuratively), strong communication is essential.<br><br> Instead of all those stakeholders needing to swap screenshots and manually track comments, the Mainspring team has now simplified and centralized design conversations within CoLab. “One of the most obvious selling points was that CoLab is very similar to workflows we're already using in Google Docs,” Walters observes. “When I'm collaborating in a Google Doc, I can ask someone in another department to take a look and give me their feedback. They'll go in and ask some questions, suggest some things. I'll get notified right away, and I can go in and take a look. We don't need to have a meeting. It's really quick. And it's collaborative, which is the way that we work. This is not a siloed company. Everybody works together very well and very naturally, and CoLab was very similar to other things that we're doing.” Not only can collaborators exchange design feedback in real-time, CoLab also makes it possible to pin comments directly on 3D models. That means discussions can happen with full mechanical context, so there’s no confusion and no need to send extra emails back-and-forth for clarification. With clearer communication the first time, designs can move forward much faster. “We’re able to get real-time feedback on the design from suppliers,” says Walters. “The suppliers are domestic and international, so now we don't need to have phone calls at odd hours. We can send them a model and just point to specific things to ask, ‘Hey, is this okay? Does this work? Can we use this material here?’ Then we get that direct feedback and it's clear.” That ability to easily share design feedback and communicate clearly has also been crucial for engaging with contractors. “When we have a new person who's in a remote office, we need to get them onboard and help them get up to speed quickly — and the work product needs to be no different than if it was the person sitting at the desk next to me,” Walters explains. “Being able to have everything in one tool that's integrated into our CAD platform is a key part of that.” Beyond enabling better asynchronous collaboration, CoLab has become a go-to for the team’s engineering communication in general. “We do still have live design review meetings or design brainstorms, and CoLab's become a standard tool to use in those because it's incredibly stable,” Walters points out. “I haven't found a 3D CAD viewer that’s as efficient and robust. Using CoLab during live meetings gives us a way to easily capture all of the comments, questions, and action items that come up in the review.” It didn’t take long for Mainspring to get up and running on CoLab — and they’re already seeing the results. During the first six months, the team has created <strong>over 500 reviews</strong> in CoLab and review time has <strong>decreased by 27%.</strong> “In six months, the key success point was that we did a cost reduction redesign of our product enclosure,” notes Walters. “We realized we'd landed a 50% cost reduction on that, and our overall design cycle was half the time of prior design cycles.” “Something that used to take a full year, we got it done in six months,” Walters continues. “And I personally have never overseen a cost reduction redesign of that scale — in terms of the number of parts and the amount of complexity — and been able to hit a 50% cost reduction on it.” During the redesign process, the team used CoLab for internal design review before shipping to production. “When we released all the manufacturing prints, it was about 300 individual PDF documents and we reviewed them all in CoLab,” explains Walters. “It's safe to say that it was the cleanest design release that we've done. It was really, really quick and clean… We didn't have any mistakes that made it out to the supplier. We caught everything internally and we did it faster than we would have otherwise.” The Mainspring team has also been able to move much faster when onboarding new contractors. “CoLab is the key part of enabling scalability and consistency with the outside design resources that we engage,” emphasizes Walters. “We've been able to successfully scale up. That outside design group went from three people to 20, and their output scaled pretty linearly with that. I don't think we could have done that with screenshots and slide decks.” Plus, for internal and external engineers alike, CoLab provides new levels of visibility and insight that weren’t possible before. “As a people manager, it's actually given me a good tool because I can see, Oh this person isn’t providing a lot of feedback,” Walters describes. “Then I can go and talk to them and give them a little bit of coaching and encouragement. As we're growing a team, it's really enabled having that data, especially with a somewhat distributed team.” However, CoLab’s impact has reached beyond the mechanical team alone. Mainspring currently has more than 85 active users in CoLab. “Initially I thought this was going to be a tool that the mechanical design engineers and the supplier development engineers were going to use, and that was it,” comments Walters. “But it got adopted really broadly across the company.” “The electrical engineering team loves it because it's lightweight,” Walters adds. “Our technical writing team, the people who write our user manuals, they love it… Our senior operating execs like it because they can check in on details easily when they’re looking for a quick update.” CoLab has made it quick and easy for anyone to access CAD and interrogate models for themselves. “They can go in, they can open up CAD, they can spin things around, see where things are. We have our whole product in there,” says Walters. “It saves everyone a lot of time and it enables them to go and find information.” The same benefits hold true when collaborating externally. “Suppliers like it more than I thought they would,” Walters observes. “We've had really good engagement from suppliers on being able to quickly onboard outside people, and also have high confidence in the security and data integrity.” Overall, the Mainspring team is happy with the value CoLab delivers. “It's been great so far. I'm looking forward to seeing where we take it,” comments Walters. “It's only been six months and so there’s actually still a lot more we can do with it, and we can continue to improve the way we're doing it.” “The thing that really sealed it was seeing that the CoLab team was as passionate about their product as we are about linear generators,” Walters elaborates. “Mainspring and CoLab are a similar size, which is big enough to be fast and impactful but also small enough to be pretty nimble. So seeing people who care about the product, that was really important to us.” For other engineering leaders looking to improve product development speed, Walters’ advice is to see for yourself: “I think the first thing I’d tell someone considering CoLab is, try it. Because assuming that you'll get the same warm welcome and easy setup for a demo that we did, then once you see it, you’ll believe it.” “For me, the ROI is really easy to make a case for,” adds Walters. “The cost per user is very reasonable within the scope of what engineering software tools cost, so it only needs to make you a little bit faster or a little bit better for that ROI to pay off. And if you're using it right and paying attention, it can make you a lot faster and make your work product a lot better.” ‍",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/mainspring-colab-case-study-cost-reduction",
"title": "Case Study: CoLab + Mainspring Energy"
"content": "Ford Pro™ delivers productivity solutions for business fleets of all sizes. From improving uptime to lowering operating costs, Ford Pro’s connected services and electric vehicles help you get the job done. MS-RT are a design-led automotive engineering company creating bespoke Ford vehicles that stand out on the road. ‍<strong>Industry</strong>: Automotive<br>‍<strong>Employees</strong>: 10,000+<br>‍<strong>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2022<br>‍<strong>Use case</strong>: <a href=\"/use-case/secure-supplier-collaboration\">Customer Collaboration</a> Building a great commercial vehicle means striking the right balance between technology, productivity, and cost. In order to deliver the best product to their commercial fleet customers, Ford Pro</a> partners with a network of converters.&nbsp; Partners like MS-RT convert Ford brand vehicles into bespoke solutions, like utility vans and ambulances. They source specialized parts from third party vendors and work with Ford Pro to integrate them into the vehicle design. “We’re co-developing a new solution for future Ford products,” explains Milan Shah, Director at Ford Pro Special Vehicles UK. “Typically the engineers work directly with the technical people in our converter partnerships.” In a recent project, MS-RT worked with Ford and a third party supplier of custom wheels. With three different engineering teams weighing in on the design, finding a way to stay on the same page was essential. James Kerr, Design and Engineering Director at MS-RT, explains: “When it comes to sharing data and being able to transfer accurate files between the three different parties, it’s really important for us to be able to make sure we’re all working on the same piece of CAD, so that there’s no ambiguity when it comes to what we’re discussing.” Meanwhile, Ford is constantly improving the core vehicle design, and communicating those changes to the converters. According to MSRT, “As Ford Pro continually makes improvements to core design, changes must be communicated to us as fast as possible.” Now, with CoLab, both of those processes just got a lot easier. Before, Ford Pro manually responded to requests from converters to share CAD files. Now, they use CoLab to share CAD with their partners on demand.</a> Both parties can also exchange design feedback right from an internet browser. <br>“CoLab digitizes all of that. It creates that design environment on a single online platform,” says Shah. “So it simplifies that product design journey – makes it much more interactive, collaborative and quicker turnaround times.” Because there’s no need for downloads, IP remains safe inside a secure environment. Plus, it will all be integrated back into Ford’s existing Product Lifecycle Management system. CoLab’s communication tools allow converters like MS-RT to provide design feedback and make it easy to communicate changes visually, eliminating confusion. According to Shah, this provides “a clear focus on the design changes that are happening – so less chance of issues and errors creeping into that final product.” ‍<br> ‍ Ford Pro is focused on productivity. Initially, they rolled out CoLab with a few converter partners. Right away, the productivity impact was clear. Projects completed using CoLab were finished 30% faster, resulting in shorter lead times. That means commercial fleet operators getting the best vehicles faster. According to Shah, after seeing productivity improvement right away, Ford Pro is moving quickly to expand the use of CoLab to their entire converter network: “As we head into 2023, we'll be rolling-out this collaborative design tool to our convertor network to accelerate design iterations, drive more innovative solutions, and reduce errors!”<br>",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/case-study-ford-pro",
"title": "Case Study: CoLab + Ford Pro"


"content": "Schneider Electric is a global specialist in energy management and automation with more than 180 years of history and innovation. With billions of dollars in annual revenues and over 120,000 employees across 100+ countries, Schneider Electric offers world-leading integrated energy and automation solutions that drive efficiency and sustainability for all. <strong><br>Industry</strong>: Industrial Equipment<br>‍<strong>Employees</strong>: 10,000+<br>‍<strong>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2021<br>‍<strong>Use case</strong>: Design Review Schneider Electric’s EcoFit Canada team had a legacy paper-based process for doing peer checks and wanted to replace it with a more robust, digital approach. The EcoFit team (which includes both electrical and mechanical engineers) does custom design work for power equipment like switchgears, switchboards, and breakers. Peer checks are used in the final design stages to review and collaborate on each other’s work before sharing it with other teams and departments. Before CoLab, these peer reviews were tracked on paper. “The process prior to CoLab was heavily reliant on paper. It was very manual,” describes Ivan Filipic, Director of EcoFit Canada. “It used to work when our team was all local. But once we started to get team members outside of our main location and people working from remote locations, that's when the process was no longer feasible. They’d need to do it on paper and scan it in, to send it. It really was a headache to do that and actually get it done.” Although the engineering team all have access to the same 3D tools, there were still challenges even just collaborating within their own team. Despite keeping a paper record of peer checks, many of the actual conversations and decisions happened over emails or in meetings — making them harder to track and trace (especially without adding more administrative burden). “Before CoLab, the issue with peer reviews wasn’t the viewing of the models. It was more about the collaboration,” observes Ali Shojaei, Engineering Manager. “There was no history of the communication, nothing to let us know who confirmed what.” Naturally, the Schneider team began looking into what functionality was available with their existing tech solutions. “We did start sharing files and 3D models across the network. We started to use what we could,” says Filipic. “Even right now, the best 3D CAD/PLM tools that we have — they have an option to open up and make notes and annotate and whatnot. But it's very cumbersome. To add a note in 3D software, there are a number of steps that you need to do.” Not only was it cumbersome, it was only an option for those with access and knowledge to engineering-specific tools. “You need to be very good with that tool to be able to provide that feedback within it,” Filipic points out. “Only highly-trained people that are very familiar with the tool can really do it. That was the limiting factor.” So, without a more effective way to share 3D designs with collaborators outside the engineering team, engineers had to spend valuable time converting models into drawings. Yet as Filipic puts it, “Traditional 2D drawings of a 3D design are not very good. You need to provide a lot of different views for somebody to understand your design, which extends the whole engineering process. You need to have a drawing for this view, and that view, and this view, and that one — instead of just having the 3D model and going over that.” Even 3D drawings aren’t an adequate substitute for models. “Most of the time a 3D drawing has so many limitations that people can’t actually use it,” notes Filipic. “You need to look at multiple drawings to get what you need, especially as questions go back and forth between engineering and production. So there’s a lot of waste in that process.” Ultimately the EcoFit team realized it was time to rethink their peer check process.&nbsp; “I did not like it, and I thought we could do better,” explains Filipic. “I knew that we had a problem, but I didn't know about CoLab itself. So we were basically experimenting with other stuff, like Creo View. That was slightly better than paperwork, but it had a lot of limitations as well.” That’s when Schneider Electric first came across CoLab. <a href=\"https://krakenrobotics.com/\">‍</a> Once the Schneider team began looking into CoLab, it seemed to be the exact solution they needed. “We figured out that CoLab would basically resolve our issues and get us off the paperwork and the manual process, to something more digital,” Filipic recalls. “Not only would this satisfy our immediate needs, but also it would open up new opportunities for the organization.” The way Shojaei describes it: “CoLab is a collaboration environment that moves the old system of paperwork aside and brings in new ways for the team to collaborate.” <a href=\"https://krakenrobotics.com/\">‍</a>Although introducing any new tool or workflow can come with challenges, Schneider Electric was confident that adopting CoLab would be worth it. “It’s another process, and normally people don't like change and new processes,” admits Shojaei. “But we knew that, at the same time, we were trying to reduce the other processes and the paperwork.” “With the paper-based peer checks, we had papers to fill in and sign and stuff,” Shojaei continues. “Now we’ve brought all those checkpoints and everything to CoLab. So we have everything digital and we don't need to do things on paper.” Beyond digitizing their peer checks, adopting CoLab has also simplified how the EcoFit team shares, reviews, and collaborates on design work in general. “Before: I’d go to the job folder, open the STEP file or ask them to email me the STEP file, then open it with my 3D tool, get a screenshot, and send emails,” describes Shojaei. “With CoLab, this is a process that’s now simpler. Once they put it there, I get a notification from CoLab that a file has been uploaded. Then I can just go in quickly, have a look, pinpoint any issues, and make comments right on it.” That’s been particularly useful for senior leaders to stay connected to day-to-day engineering operations with minimal time and effort. “I’m copied on a lot of these designs. And even though I'm no longer actively managing the engineering, I still open up and take a look,” Filipic explains. “With CoLab, I can actually see what's going on. I can see the quality of work, the quality of designs. I can provide my comments as well, and easily have people follow up and action it.” It’s also simpler to share design files with anyone who needs to review them, since CoLab is accessed right in your web browser. “The beauty of CoLab is that you don't need to download any special software application. It's cloud-based, so you just need to get your login ID and it’s done,” remarks Filipic. “Any computer that we have right now, it doesn't need to be engineering specs or heavy duty or anything like that. Any computer can do it. That’s the beauty of it.” That also means it’s easier to include collaborators who don’t typically use 3D tools like CAD. “When we started collaborating with other teams outside of our team, CoLab was helpful for sharing the 3D with them. Because not everyone uses 3D tools and not everyone knows how to use them,” comments Shojaei. “So CoLab is good. It’s simple. You can easily work with it. You don't need special skills or tools to work in CoLab.” “People outside of my engineering team were not using 3D before. But with CoLab now, they like it,” Shojaei adds. “They see a new dimension. Before it was always 2D; now, they can see how things work together. So they’re very happy and excited about CoLab. A lot more people now have access to those models.” It’s not only 3D models that are more widely accessible, either. CoLab offers native support for 70+ file types, bringing together all the relevant design data for any given project. <a href=\"https://krakenrobotics.com/\">‍</a>For the Schneider team, CoLab has allowed new people to view and interact with bills of materials. “People outside the engineering team, they didn’t have the BoM before. They had the drawings and other stuff, but they never had a bill of materials,” explains Shojaei. “In CoLab, the bill of materials is interactive. You can select a part and it highlights it for you; it can isolate it for you, so you can do measurements and other stuff on the part. So that’s been the cherry on top for those outside the engineering team.” Overall, Schneider Electric didn’t just digitize their design review process — they also made it more engaging and effective. “It’s more interactive doing the peer checks in CoLab,” Shojaei highlights. “It helps us with better interactive collaboration, not just passive collaboration through emails and other things.” Plus, thanks to the functionality CoLab provides, it’s easier to communicate about design in a way that’s clearer and more efficient. “Before when engineers were reviewing a model, there was no way of pointing to specific issues on the models and stuff like that,” says Shojaei. “Now, in CoLab, that's possible.” “With CoLab, you have what you need right in front of you,” Filipic summarizes. “It's all there. It's very clear.” Since adopting CoLab, Schneider Electric has saved time and money by speeding up review cycles and avoiding potential mistakes earlier in the design process. Peer reviews are more efficient, and more people are involved in providing design feedback. There’s better communication tracking and revision history. And ultimately, that all means fewer quality issues. Fewer quality issues, in turn, means a reduction in Non-Quality Costs (NQC) — the costs associated with quality escapes, such as rework or scrapped parts.&nbsp; Just within the first year of using CoLab, <strong>the EcoFit team lowered NQC by 15%.</strong> “I have a lot of examples where CoLab has really, really worked well. I have a lot of good feedback from our people,” emphasizes Filipic. “With CoLab, you can be more productive. You can be more predictive. That's what it's all about.” “The collaboration is going very well,” agrees Shojaei. “The implementation was as smooth as possible, and I know it pays off on my side now. It's easier for me to work on CoLab than other tools. Training everyone and getting everyone on board, it pays off.” With CoLab, the peer review process is now much simpler and streamlined. “The peer checks and the way we were doing them before, it's easier now,” Shojaei says. Plus, using CoLab offers a more standardized and repeatable way of collaborating on design. “Now it's an actual process, and it’s straightforward. It helps me save time.” CoLab also makes it much easier to include more people and perspectives, which leads to a more collaborative process and thus a higher-quality product. “With CoLab, what we’re achieving is getting more people involved in the quality checks, in providing the comments,” notes Filipic. “I think that's a main advantage of CoLab: the possibility to seamlessly involve bigger groups of people when sharing design files and getting feedback.” “Before, it was one on one when your peers would look at it. But right now, your work can actually be checked by 20 people if you want,” Filipic adds. “Everybody's going to provide different opinions, and somebody may see something another person didn't see. It opens up a lot more eyes to look at your work, which essentially improves the quality of work.” Enabling better and more widespread access to design files comes with immediate benefits. But having more people interacting with the actual 3D models also comes with benefits that compound over time. “It's very educational for everybody who's involved,” remarks Filipic. “The 3D designs are not the sole property of engineering now; everybody can get in there and look. And the more you look at it, the more you understand how things work.” ‍ As a result, it’s easier for cross-functional teams to effectively share knowledge and expertise with each other for the benefit of all.&nbsp; That means people can work more collaboratively, while at the same time learning from each other so they can perform better independently. “People become faster. They get better at what they do,” Filipic notes. “We’ve eliminated a number of the shop questions coming toward engineering.” Improving quality also means lowering the costs associated with quality escapes. “Using CoLab, we can reduce our quality costs because designs get reviewed more, and more easily, and by more people – not only internal people, but also external people. So that helps us to identify any issues before they become an expensive fix,” Shojaei explains. Given the EcoFit team’s positive experience, there’s plenty of potential for Schneider Electric and CoLab’s partnership to grow. “We’ve actually promoted CoLab inside Schneider to other teams because we see the benefits,” mentions Shojaei. “At this stage I believe we have a solid and robust system between CoLab and Schneider.” “I’ve recommended CoLab to my peers across the company,” Filipic adds. “What I've told them is that I think it's a good tool. It's very productive.” As Shojaei puts it, “Essentially we are trying to have more and more people on CoLab… We’re trying to do more processes around CoLab. That's going to help us stay on track without needing to be tracking everything one by one.” When asked about the business impact of CoLab, Filipic says increased efficiency is the number one thing. But he acknowledges that it all comes down to the financial impact: “Being faster, less labour invested, cheaper installation, cheaper product, better margins, a minimized number of quality issues, minimum number of rework, scrap, and whatnot — these all result in financial benefits.” “It's a powerful tool, no question,” stresses Filipic. For Shojaei, introducing CoLab has eliminated waste from his team’s processes around reviews and collaboration. That means less non-value-add work, and more time to focus on quality.&nbsp; “To me, it’s worth it. It's a tool that’s worth the investment,” Shojaei emphasizes. “If you have collaboration and you want others to look at your model and comment and then go and fix and revise — then it's a tool that’s worth it. Otherwise you're going to have a lot of processes around that and you’ll waste more time there.” <br>",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/case-study-schneider-electric",
"title": "Case Study: Schneider Electric + CoLab"


"content": "<br>Johnson Controls (JCI) is a global technology and industrial leader that’s been transforming environments and making buildings smarter since 1885. With billions of dollars in worldwide sales and thousands of employees across hundreds of locations, JCI offers the world’s largest portfolio of innovative building products, technologies, software, and services. <strong>Industry</strong>: Industrial Equipment<strong><br>Employees</strong>: 10,000+<strong><br>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2018<strong><br>Use case</strong>: Cost Reduction — Value Analysis/Value Engineering (VA/VE) When the pandemic first hit, Johnson Controls needed to make a quick pivot. Up until that point, JCI’s cost reduction strategy had revolved around in-person VA/VE events requiring global travel. Suddenly travel was no longer an option, yet it was more important than ever to stay on track with cost reduction targets. “VA/VE is one of our big priorities,” says Brian Stauffer, Global Product Design Manager. “With the pandemic, we had a unique situation where we weren’t able to travel to the factories anymore but we wanted to continue the VA savings that we’ve been getting.” Although JCI’s Applied HVAC Equipment division had started using CoLab for design reviews prior to the pandemic, they hadn’t yet considered adopting CoLab for VA/VE. “We used to do VA events live at the factories,” explains Stauffer. “When we did this in person, like we used to in the past — we dedicated a couple days to it, we flew people in, and they focused their time for that day or two to come up with as many ideas as they could.” With global travel off the table, JCI needed a solution that would allow them to move to a digital model so they could continue holding VA/VE events. “Because of Covid, our travel budget had been cut to pretty much nothing,” notes Stauffer. “We needed a way to communicate globally with a large number of folks at the same time.” To make the shift from in-person events to virtual VA/VE, the Johnson Controls team needed more than just a communication tool. They also needed a way to make design data easily accessible to everyone involved, especially those with no access to Creo and/or limited experience with CAD in general. However, given the complex and 3D nature of JCI’s product line, basic tools for file sharing and collaboration simply didn’t cut it. “Having the real model and actually being able to measure things and hide things — with other tools, that’s been a pain,” remarks Brian McMaster, Mechanical Design Lead. “Our engineers had to just look at PDFs and get their best view possible. Some would ask for 3D PDFs, but they’re still not great.” So JCI turned to CoLab for a virtual VA/VE solution. ‍ The Johnson Controls team moved quickly to identify what they truly needed in a solution. “We wanted a tool we could access independently and collaboratively to do these reviews. That was something we were looking for,” comments Stauffer. “Getting more familiar with the software, I started thinking CoLab was the perfect solution. It seemed like the best fit for hosting VA/VE events that were virtual instead of in person.” As a browser-based cloud tool, CoLab makes it simple for everyone to stay in the loop — whether working together in real-time, asynchronously, or a hybrid combination. “Multiple people can be in there at the same time, which is very beneficial for us,” observes Stauffer. For any file, the full history of revisions and discussion is easily viewable and automatically kept up-to-date. “With a global engineering and manufacturing organization, it’s critical that we can keep all parties on the same page,” says Mike Zamalis, VP Global Chiller Product Engineering. “With CoLab we have that ability to have various functional groups around the world all reviewing and commenting, live or around the clock, on the same exact model.” Compared to the traditional in-person model, doing VA/VE virtually in CoLab also makes it possible to include a broader range of people and perspectives. “With CoLab, now we can open this up to a lot more people than we could when traveling to the factories,” Stauffer points out.&nbsp; By eliminating the travel costs associated with VA/VE events, CoLab allows JCI not only to include more people — but also to hold events on a more frequent basis, rather than a couple times per year. Additionally, CoLab lets the JCI team take a more continuous approach to the events themselves. “We were able to extend the timeframe to come up with ideas, so people can actually work at their own pace,” says Stauffer. “Instead of being trapped in a room for two or three days, this lets you do it over more of a two-week period.” Another way CoLab makes it possible for more people to participate in VA/VE events is by lowering the technical barrier to entry. “Being a web-based tool, there is no software distribution nor installation and very little training,” Zamalis comments. “It is VERY intuitive with easy-to-understand icons. We typically ‘train’ during one of our event kickoff sessions.” “Users that aren’t familiar with Creo, or don’t have access to Creo models, can now actually spin the models around individually,” adds Stauffer. “You can spin the model around, you can isolate components, you can explode things, you can do cross-sections — things that, typically, you wouldn’t get to see when primarily on the factory floor.”<br>‍ ‍ Along with wider participation and greater access to 3D models, using CoLab to communicate about design helps minimize the potential for miscommunications and mistakes “The ability to actually pinpoint an issue, like <em>this pipe</em> or <em>this sheet metal</em> or <em>this whatever</em> is the problem, and CoLab takes you directly to that component — that’s big,” emphasizes McMaster. As McMaster puts it: “Being international, we have different terms for the exact same part between China, US, Mexico, wherever. So in the past you might spend a day going back and forth on email, just because you say a part and they don’t understand what you’re talking about because they call it something different. Now, being able to pinpoint a part, there’s really no way to confuse that anymore.” Yet beyond making it possible to generate more (and better) ideas, CoLab also makes it easier to prioritize actions and get ideas implemented. For any drawing or model, a side panel will display all feedback associated with that file. For each piece of feedback, users can enter and update as much information as they need. “We can set priorities, we can set statuses, and we can assign due dates,” describes Stauffer. “You can attach JPEGs, you can attach PDF files, and even snapshots of the actual model itself.” And since CoLab’s Track table offers a bird’s-eye view of all your feedback and reviews, it’s easy to zoom out and prioritize your next steps. “Basically we take all the ideas at the end of the event, and we have product management and our lead product engineer go through the activities and suggestions that were made,” explains Stauffer. “Then we actually come up with priority lists and cost targets and stuff like that. We identify which ideas we’re going to implement, and what order we’re going to implement them in.” ‍ Just by making the switch from in-person events to virtual VA/VE in CoLab, JCI started seeing tangible value almost right away. “We’ve been using this for over a year now for VA/VE events,” Stauffer notes. “And what we’ve actually seen is: we get a better benefit out of doing it virtually than we would have typically on the factory floor.” With CoLab, it’s easier and more cost-effective to facilitate VA/VE events than it was before. Which means: As a result of using CoLab, the Johnson Controls team has seen an uptick in idea generation. “We’re getting a lot more ideas coming forward,” says Stauffer. “Now, we’re not limiting the timeframe to a two-day window. We’re not spending money to send people around the world to be able to do these events. And we’re actually getting more content, by having the ability to let people just do this at their own pace.” Beyond the upfront savings on travel costs, shifting to a virtual format has made it possible to open up VA/VE participation to a much bigger and broader group. That means more people able to contribute ideas, and more diverse perspectives being included. “Adding additional people has really expanded our collection of ideas,” remarks Stauffer. “We can have people included in the events now who typically wouldn’t have been able to be there before. So we’re getting more ideas, coming from a broader group of people and a more cross-functional team.” Not only has CoLab made it easy to involve more people, it’s also opened up new ways of collaborating. By bringing everyone’s ideas together in one spot — easily accessible to all and updated in real-time — CoLab creates space for more collaborative interactions to happen. “People can actually see what others are suggesting, and maybe add onto it, where we didn’t really have that interaction in the past,” Stauffer explains. “Now you can actually see the comments that others have already made, as you go and as you review on your own. And that may spark other things in your head, now that you saw somebody else’s ideas.” Plus, by giving more people a way to view and explore 3D models, CoLab makes it possible for everyone to engage meaningfully and get the information they need to contribute their expertise. As Stauffer observes: “People that didn’t necessarily have access to the 3D data before, they now have the ability to open up a model, spin it around, make comments, et cetera. That’s been fantastic.” It’s also easier now to communicate both quickly <em>and</em> clearly. Ideas are always shared with full context, right on the design file, so there’s no confusion about what’s being discussed. “It’s been great. It’s a better communication tool. It’s looking at models, looking at drawings, and people can make comments right on them, so there’s no misinterpretation of what we’re talking about,” emphasizes Stauffer. “We all speak the same language when we’re looking at a model. Right?” Overall: virtual VA/VE in CoLab has helped Johnson Controls to thrive in challenging conditions, rather than just survive. Even with ambitious targets and rising external pressures, the JCI team has used CoLab to continue consistently hitting their numbers. “CoLab has proven to be successful,” reflects Stauffer. “Using this for VA/VE events has been a big savings on our part.”&nbsp; More than the software alone, Johnson Control values their partnership with CoLab. “I definitely think we’ve had a good working relationship. Anything that we throw at CoLab, they’ve been able to respond very quickly,” Stauffer notes. “CoLab is more than willing to jump in and help anywhere they can, which is a huge deal for me.”&nbsp; And, given the success JCI has found with CoLab so far, it’s a partnership with definite potential for growth. “We’re looking at ways we can utilize this more on a day-to-day basis rather than just VA/VE,” states Stauffer. “I’m excited about getting it in more people’s hands,” adds McMaster. “It makes everybody so much more efficient. With times being the way they were, there was a huge opportunity for us to get worse at efficiency, and I feel like this tool has allowed us to do the opposite.”&nbsp; ‍",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/johnson-controls-builds-industry-leading-engineering-change-and-design-review-process",
"title": "Case Study: Johnson Controls + CoLab"


"content": "Hyundai Mobis is a Tier 1 automotive supplier for Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) like Chrysler, Ford, GM, Tesla, and others. With thousands of employees around the world and billions of dollars in annual revenue, Mobis has been building innovative and world-class products for some of the biggest brands in the business since 1977. <strong>Industry</strong>: Automotive<br>‍<strong>Employees</strong>: 10,000+<br>‍<strong>Using CoLab since</strong>: 2019<br>‍<strong>Use case</strong>: <a href=\"/use-case/secure-supplier-collaboration\">Supplier Collaboration</a> Before adopting CoLab, Hyundai Mobis had started looking for a better way to share design files both internally and externally. The Mobis team had recognized that a few improvements to their engineering collaboration processes would have a real impact on the business. The right solution would make it easy for engineers and leaders to do three main things: Given the mission-critical importance of IP and data security for Hyundai Mobis, sharing and accessing files requires adhering to very particular processes and protocols.&nbsp; “We’re extremely focused on our document security,” noted Igor Beric, Manager — Global OE EE. “It’s generally very rigorous for us to even transfer CAD files between our own internal systems. So previously, we’d have to use an FTP server or get an internally-approved USB just to transfer a 7MB file.” With the need to collaborate across a range of different file formats, CAD tools, and PLM systems, it could be complicated to get the right person the right access to the right file at the right time. “I always had access to a CAD system and a PLM system, specific to one OEM customer,” Beric continued. “But when it came to other customers and people wanting to share CAD, I always had to be hooked up to the VPN servers. I always had to wait 18 minutes for one model to load up — then, if somebody wanted to see a different one, I’d have to wait another 18 minutes for that.” Without a standardized, secure way to easily share files back and forth between engineers and different internal teams, simple file accessibility was becoming a time-consuming challenge. “To share CAD, I’d have to go and download some big file and then find a way to send it or give it to somebody,” described Hak Park, Engineering Manager. “As stupid as it may sound, sharing files was very hard to do here with all the security.” It wasn’t just a matter of file sharing, either. Aside from sharing the CAD files themselves, it was also challenging to effectively communicate feedback and design intent. Like many engineering teams, the Mobis team was stuck trying to use screenshots and slide decks to collaborate. These collaboration pains also made it difficult to effectively share CAD externally, with customers and potential customers. “The main reason we actually needed CoLab at the time was because we were quoting new business,” Park explained. “And we didn’t really have a good way to look at the 3D model files that Fiat Chrysler Automotive was sending, in order to quote.” The Mobis team had started looking for potential solutions and workarounds, but had been unsatisfied with other options. “Because it was so slow, before CoLab I had also looked into free CAD viewers available online,” mentioned Park. “So we tried that, but we didn't have any real control. We couldn’t do the reviews and issue creation that we can do in CoLab.\" Finally, Hyundai Mobis discovered CoLab. ‍ With team members in both the United States and South Korea, plus OEM customers all over the world, CoLab enables seamless global design collaboration for Hyundai Mobis. Since adopting CoLab, the Mobis team can now securely share and review 3D files and drawings with anyone, all from a simple web browser. “When Hak introduced me to CoLab I was like, ‘Wow, you’re just doing this right from your browser,’” recalled Beric. “He said, ‘Oh yeah, I can do it from any PC. I just need a stable internet connection.’ So that definitely opened my eyes to it.” With CoLab, engineers can create dynamic 3D design reviews and assembly instructions to share with internal teams and customers. Feedback happens with full mechanical context, allowing any collaborator to freely view and manipulate 3D models. Plus all design decisions, information, and actions get automatically tracked in CoLab. ‍ ‍ “Doing the upload to CoLab — I can see that model, play with it, look at it, anytime I want. Not just at the office, but also externally. So that was a very critical thing for us,” Park commented. “The issues and the reviews we created on our files were key for our tech review when we were bidding for the program. Fiat Chrysler Automotive really liked being able to see the model on screen and being able to move it around. I think that was very helpful.” And while file sharing has gotten much simpler and faster, security is still paramount. Not only does CoLab uphold the Mobis team’s rigorous security standards, the user experience is built with security in mind every step of the way.&nbsp; Hyundai Mobis always has full control over file access and downloading permissions, including the ability to shut access off at any time. Unlike email, CoLab makes it easy to know what’s happening with design files even after they’ve been shared externally. “Anytime somebody downloads something, I get the notification. I see it,” noted Park. CoLab has also made a big difference when it comes to collaborating internally. It’s given the team a fast and smooth way to transfer files between workstations. “Several of our engineers actually cross-pollinate between multiple projects,” remarked Beric. “The downloading and uploading and just how easy and fluid that went, that’s been unexpectedly beneficial to us.” <strong>Plus, multi-CAD collaboration is simpler and more cost-effective with CoLab. </strong>“There are real-number costs to have converters implemented into CAD systems to be able to go between a CAD product to a STEP file to an IGES file to a PRT file, whereas CoLab does it naturally,” pointed out Beric. In fact, on top of supporting 70+ native file formats, CoLab integrates directly with major CAD/PLM systems. As Beric put it, “The added benefit of having the PLM implementation in CoLab, that was definitely the icing on the cake.” But one of the best things about CoLab? All the time it saves by cutting out needless slideshow prep and manual admin work. Since Beric began using CoLab, his team of mechanical engineers has more than doubled. CoLab helps make the onboarding process a breeze. “From day one, once I get them that CoLab license, they’re able to dive in and see all of our projects and see all of the products that we produce,” explains Beric. “Before that, it would’ve taken me at least a month to put together a detailed PowerPoint. Now I simply get them access to the project folder in CoLab, get them ramped up really quickly, and have them start scanning through the 2D and 3D CAD to try to identify any issues, right from the get-go. So what does Hyundai Mobis have to say about the business results of adopting CoLab? “New business awarded, that’s very big,” Park emphasized. Given the Mobis team’s solid track record and reputation as a world-class automotive supplier, leveraging CoLab during the bidding process provided an extra competitive edge — which helped Hyundai Mobis secure a substantial long-term partnership with Fiat Chrysler Automotive. “Another big benefit is the engineering change notices,” noted Park. “Fiat Chrysler Automotive is constantly sending revisions to their parts or components. With CoLab, we can go in and see what it was versus what it is now, so we can assess the changes much better than we could before. That's a very big benefit for us.\" Securely sharing files and collaborating on CAD with external stakeholders is much simpler and faster now. “It’s a benefit to be able to share files with headquarters, or with anybody,” said Park. “It’s very hard to send stuff, with our security. But CoLab has helped with that a lot.” It’s also been a cost-effective way to make files and information more accessible across the company, especially when it comes to 3D models. CoLab makes it possible for anyone to view and manipulate a design in 3D without needing direct access to a CAD or PLM system. “I can actually put a real dollar figure to how much CoLab actually saves us,” highlighted Beric. “I know engineers don’t usually concern ourselves with cost. But from a management standpoint, you can put a real dollar figure to how much a CATIA license, a PLM license, a UG license, or just a simple CAD viewer are (not to mention the investment for the hardware to support all of those CAD functions) — versus a simple CoLab subscription.” And since CoLab is so easy to roll out and use, the Mobis team didn’t have to go through months and months of painful implementation before starting to see real value. “Being able to jump into CoLab and have it be so intuitive is definitely helpful,” added Beric. “We have a core design team that’s outside of our mechanical design team. Having that simple way to transfer files using CoLab and being able to show them quick markups or snap to sections, so they can clearly understand what our intents were — that was a big game-changer for me.” Hyundai Mobis also values the partnership CoLab offers. “Every issue we have, we report it. If it’s something solvable, it’s resolved within a day. If not, we find out that it’s in the roadmap or there are plans to implement it,” remarked Beric. “I feel like the CoLab team is really there, supporting us every step of the way.” Ultimately, with CoLab, the Mobis team can move faster without sacrificing on security or quality. For Park, the difference CoLab makes is simple: “The review of changes is much, much faster and much more accurate for my engineering team.”<br>‍ ‍",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/how-hyundai-mobis-is-driving-success-with-colab",
"title": "Case Study: Hyundai Mobis + CoLab"



"content": "Xometry is a global manufacturing marketplace that connects buyers and sellers with a better sourcing solution for on-demand industrial parts. Powered by Artificial Intelligence, Xometry’s innovative platform has helped thousands of businesses complete millions of transactions to get things built faster, better, and more affordably—and their growth is only <a href=\"https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomtaulli/2021/07/02/xometry-ipo-looking-to-be-the-airbnb-of-on-demand-manufacturing/?sh=6e3c4cf841f9\">accelerating</a>. In 2020, the Xometry team started using CoLab to make the communication process better for discussing new product ideas and collaborating on design. Recently, CoLab CEO Adam Keating chatted with Xometry Senior Product Manager <a href=\"https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-rush-61885115b/\">Rachel Rush</a> about the current shift in how people work together across engineering and manufacturing. This post covers some highlights from their conversation. As design and manufacturing teams have advanced, building more complex products on a bigger global scale, the tools they use for collaboration and productivity have not kept pace. Across industries, the way people communicate and work together has been transforming for years. Cloud-based tools, distributed workforces, the rise of remote work, the shift to a best-of-breed approach to software—it’s a convergence of multiple trends that were only <a href=\"https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/one-year-later-what-engineering-managers-can-learn-from-the-rapid-shift-to-remote-collaboration\">accelerated by the global Covid-19 pandemic</a>. But for many engineering and manufacturing teams, this transformation hasn’t happened as quickly. “The manufacturing industry in general… what we’ve found is it feels sometimes like it's one of the industries that's kind of the last to hop on the technology revolution, changing the way people work,” says Rush. “When Xometry started, a lot of customers and a lot of manufacturing shops were using the same tools that they were using 20 years ago, and they hadn't really done any innovation. And at the end of the day, it really just slowed them down.” Just like CoLab, Xometry recognizes that the current shift happening in the industry isn’t about changing how teams design, or how they manufacture. It’s about a change in how people communicate, collaborate, and use technology to be more productive. As Rush puts it, “We realized it wasn't about changing what they did. It wasn't about teaching people about manufacturing. It was about giving them a better tool to use, to get what they wanted easier and quicker.” For the industry to move beyond an outdated status quo, innovations need to go hand-in-hand with an understanding of people and behaviour change. “It's just about remembering somebody's going to come to work at the beginning of the day and have to do a job—and you can't forget about that daily experience,” emphasizes Rush. “They have to be able to understand what they're doing and focus on what they're doing and still be able to accomplish things, even though you’re trying to change the way that they work.” Striking the right balance means meeting people where they are, while helping them move toward something better. Instead of trying to take big leaps, it’s about innovating in increments (and more often). As Rush views it, “You can come up with this grand strategy about where you want to be in ten years. But then you've got to say, ‘Okay, what is it that I can do today? What is it about their workflow that I can change today that is actually manageable for them?’ And then just iterate on that and do that over and over again.” Rush’s advice for anyone who wants to make a meaningful impact? “Don't think about what you <em>can </em>do. Think about what you <em>want</em> to do, and then see if you can figure out how you can do that. Because you'd be surprised how many new methods of doing things are developed every day… So really think about what you want to accomplish and then work back from there. Because sometimes the thing—that end product, or the change that you want to make—is actually completely different than what you thought it was going to be, but you can still accomplish what you want to accomplish.” Over the last several years as Xometry has grown, their own needs as a team have evolved. As they took on more large projects and started doing more design reviews and collaboration with their customers and partners, Xometry saw an opportunity to make the communication process better for everyone. They started exploring project management and communication tools looking for ways to improve clarity and efficiency. Rush continues, “Then we found CoLab… and it just seemed like, wow, that just fits so perfectly for what we have been discussing, sort of what Xometry had not solved yet—which was how can we collaborate with our customers, with our partners, and give them that great user experience while maintaining perfect record tracking and perfect history and really just communicating quicker and more effectively.” So what does Rush hope to see when it comes to changing the way design and manufacturing teams work together? “I think success is when an engineer can work with an engineer in a completely other different country, build something together online, collaborate very quickly, order it, get it delivered very quickly, get pricing very quickly. Between the two companies, I think we've done a great job of solving some of the most difficult problems there, and I'm excited to see how different groups of engineers, different teams can use our products to just come up with some really great new ideas and to do it without as much friction that they've always had to deal with—which I think, at the end of the day, really is a big blocker to innovation.” “That's where CoLab comes in. It's a great manufacturing tool, but it's also at its essence, I think a great communication tool. Like, you don't have to be physically in someone's presence to make sure that they understand what you're pointing to,” says Rush. “We have the engineering talent in this world, right? We just need to give them the tools so that they can do what they do best.” <br> ‍",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/colab-xometry-a-practical-approach-to-scaling-innovation",
"title": "Case Study: Xometry + CoLab"


"content": "Genoa Design International has been providing production design and 3D modeling services to shipbuilding and offshore industries from Newfoundland and Labrador since 1995. In that time, they’ve become one of the most sought-after production design firms in the North American shipbuilding market with a commitment to quality and a cornerstone of collaboration. Currently, Genoa is active in major programs such as Canada’s National Shipbuilding Strategy (NSS) as well as commercial and government contracts in the United States. Genoa is proud to play an important role in the NSS, which includes the design of multi-task ships for the Canadian Navy such as the Joint Support Ship and modern, first in class vessels, such as the Offshore Fisheries Science Vessel for the Canadian Coast Guard. <br> In March of 2020, like much of the world, Genoa was tasked with a new challenge - safely transition their team to work from home and master remote work, <strong>immediately. </strong>Slowing down was not an option. Genoa had to continue to deliver for their customers as the vessels they work on are critical for both Canada and the United States. They had to do what they do best -<strong> innovate.&nbsp;&nbsp;</strong> Genoa immediately began working on a solution, digitizing their production drawing review process on several key projects and engaged CoLab to help make it happen. Genoa didn’t miss a beat - hitting their goals, moving faster than ever before, and achieving best-in-class quality. Genoa delivers for its customers - even in the most uncertain of times.&nbsp; Together, Genoa and CoLab delivered unprecedented success for these projects, mastered remote drawing review, reduced paper, delivered quality, pushed continuous improvement, and achieved efficiency excellence. And the numbers speak for themselves!&nbsp;<br> ‍ ‍ Today, Genoa uses CoLab to drive their drawing review process. From self-checks to QA Review, they now complete their full drawing review process collaboratively within their digital CoLab hub. ‍ ‍ With the implementation of CoLab, Genoa has achieved powerful results, quickly. In just a few short months, they’ve become so efficient with their remote review process, that they now complete their production drawing reviews <strong>twice as fast</strong> as their previous process, with no disruptions.&nbsp; Genoa has also eliminated paper and email attachments from their review process, adopted an automated digital thread for each of their reviews, achieved unprecedented efficiency, and so much more. As Genoa decided it was in the best interest of their team and communities to work from home, they needed to find a new way to collaborate. While the way Genoa teams had to work and collaborate changed dramatically, their goals did not. They had to deliver excellence for their customers.&nbsp; Genoa has always leveraged the 3D model, the associated drawings, and high quality review processes to collaborate effectively with their customers and partners. Like many design teams, Genoa’s review process employed the industry-approved tools: screenshares, model exports, in-person reviews, email, PDFs in disconnected desktop tools, and printed drawings. With a new distributed work environment, Genoa had to pivot quickly. That’s where CoLab came in.&nbsp; Together, CoLab and Genoa analysed the existing process, designed a new digital one, complementing their existing agile framework, got the team up to speed, implemented CoLab and started executing. All in about one week. Scott Greene, Designer II with Genoa Design shared: “I could see CoLab’s potential immediately. The pandemic had no end in sight, so we started to check our drawings on the cloud using CoLab. In just a few months, CoLab has evolved into a tool I want to use into the future.“ What began as a challenge to match their previous in-office efficiency, quickly became something much bigger. With CoLab, Genoa has not only achieved their previous drawing review efficiency, but created a new process that was even faster than before.&nbsp; <br> <br> ‍ ‍ Genoa’s been pushing the bounds of 3D model collaboration for years. So, it’s no surprise that they weren’t satisfied with the industry standard drawing review processes that are typically conducted on paper or within desktop PDF tools paired with emails and manual work. Genoa wanted to be agile and lean, and embed their quality processes into every stage of their reviews. CoLab provided&nbsp; a digital, automated and connected way to move through their design process.&nbsp; Today, Genoa safely stores their production drawings in CoLab, in one central hub. When a drawing is ready for feedback, they simply share it for review and begin the markup process. Reviewers are instantly notified, and brought directly to the file where they can add markups, make comments, and address feedback. If a drawing is sent back with changes, the designer simply makes the modifications in their CAD tool, and pushes a new version. This version control process is built directly into CoLab reviews, and the history is automatically stored. Once a document has passed through its final quality check, a final clean copy is stored in CoLab. Just like that, the review cycle is complete!&nbsp; This new process has become the favored approach even with designers returning to physically distanced office environments. Bill Norman, Designer with Genoa shared: “My aha moment was I could find any drawing at any time, when I wanted to look at it. I didn’t have to go through stacks of paper. I love CoLab!” And this doesn’t just enable a paperless process. A central digital hub means version control and comprehensive digital threads are managed directly in CoLab, without manual effort or report creation.&nbsp; Genoa is an ISO 9001:2015 certified quality-leader, and has built their work around quality excellence - from concept to final design.&nbsp; The team is constantly improving their process for two key reasons:&nbsp; Key CoLab functionality including version control between revisions, comprehensive histories and audit trails and real-time communication allows Genoa to standardize process, automate reporting and streamline record-keeping while actually learning more from one another. In early 2021, Genoa will add integrated CoLab checklists and sophisticated analytics tools to their QA workflow, allowing them to automate QA and identify areas for further improvement. Quality is a critical component of Genoa’s work, and one that they take very seriously. With a culture of continuous improvement, Genoa is always striving to improve their quality processes. This made Genoa a perfect partner to help build CoLab’s soon-to-be-released quality tools, benefiting design and manufacturing teams worldwide.&nbsp; <br> CoLab and Genoa had an initial goal of matching the team’s previous in-office drawing review efficiency. It quickly became clear that not only would the team reach that goal, they’d blow it out of the water. And today, they’ve done just that! With previous steps like printing drawings, sending follow-up emails, searching through emails and versions are eliminated,&nbsp; Genoa can move faster than ever before.&nbsp; Genoa has seen immediate results from their CoLab implementation, and they’re not slowing down. Genoa has proven that with the right tools, they can hit even the most ambitious goals.&nbsp; Like much of the design and manufacturing world, Genoa projects were impacted by COVID-19. Now, Genoa and CoLab are evaluating how to take the lessons learned and results achieved through the initial CoLab integration and share it across the rest of their project portfolio. Genoa is now focused on implementing CoLab for their 3D review process, and expanding to their external partners to create a unified process and hub for every review required to design their next ship. Their team is positioned to lead the industry into the next generation of digital innovation, and are on track to become the most sought-after partner in shipbuilding. Together, CoLab and Genoa are building the future of design and manufacturing collaboration, leading the shipbuilding industry forward.&nbsp; ‍",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/genoa-sets-the-new-shipbuilding-production-drawing-review-standard-with-colab",
"title": "Case Study: Genoa + CoLab"


"content": Kraken Robotics is a global leader in the design and development of advanced marine technologies for military and commercial applications, including Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) — a revolutionary underwater imaging technology that dramatically improves seabed surveys by providing ultra-high resolution imagery at superior coverage rates.&nbsp; In 2017, Kraken Robotics expanded their product offerings to include the design and manufacturing of complete underwater vehicles. Since then, Kraken has experienced rapid growth — securing record-breaking contracts year over year and becoming a world-class manufacturer with quality and innovation at their core.&nbsp; Kraken constantly innovates, improving their current products and working with companies of all sizes on new and exciting ventures. With offices in three Canadian provinces, two in Germany, and one in the USA, effective collaboration across these locations is critical to their projects, timelines, and success. Kraken’s passion for innovation goes beyond just the products they build. It extends into how they build them. Kraken moves fast, but&nbsp; meeting unprecedented quality standards doesn’t mean slowing down.&nbsp;<br> As Kraken scaled, they weren’t satisfied with many common, industry-standard design review practices such as CAD screenshots in slideshows, Excel-based issue lists, or chasing down feedback in emails and PDFs. They wanted to set a new standard — with a process as innovative as the solutions they make.&nbsp;<br> Kraken had two goals: unprecedented efficiency and quality.&nbsp;<br> Wanting a more efficient process, Kraken conducted an analysis to determine if using CoLab would reduce the number of actions it took to complete a review. Following that analysis, they determined that the CoLab workflow would reduce steps in the process by 20-25%. With fewer steps in the review process, engineers can spend their time designing and building — not administrating. The team also required a central hub where reviews could happen — asynchronously or in real-time — so engineers always knew the right version to work on and could ensure issues and feedback were addressed before becoming expensive changes. To develop a process that met these objectives, Kraken turned to CoLab. Together, Kraken and CoLab have developed an agile design review process that helps Kraken meet their industry-leading quality standards while improving efficiency. ‍ CoLab gives Kraken Robotics a central hub for their entire review process that directly integrates with SolidWorks and PDM. With a real-time collaborative hub, teams can improve interaction and collaboration while reducing waste and unnecessary documentation — for improved efficiency. \"For me, this is a one-stop-shop for design reviews,\"&nbsp; explains Greg Walsh. \"If I go to CoLab and open my dashboard, that’s my review task list right there — keeping me on top of what’s next.\" Mechanical engineers at Kraken can push 3D files into CoLab directly from SolidWorks or add drawings directly within the application itself. Then they assign the review to a colleague and CoLab handles the rest from there. CoLab’s customizable notifications mean you never miss a review or task and never need to chase someone down via email. Using CoLab and SolidWorks you can design, execute reviews, and manage feedback — all without leaving the tools you trust. The CoLab dashboard aggregates Kraken’s review tasks and files, acting as a review task manager while simplifying file access for reviewers.&nbsp; <br> ‍ <br> \"I can easily tab back and forth between CoLab and SolidWorks. Nice and simple,\" says Kraken mechanical engineer Nick Sparkes. <br> With CoLab, designers and managers have a clear picture of which reviews need to happen, where in-progress reviews stand, and which reviews are complete.&nbsp; Based on CoLab’s discussions with engineering teams across industries, email threads and PowerPoint decks are still largely at the center of standard processes. With these manual, disconnected methods, it's easy for old versions of files to end up somewhere they shouldn’t or for an early version to make its way to the shop floor. But at Kraken, files are tightly controlled. Everyone knows which revision is the latest, and files never get released until they’ve made it through each review stage.&nbsp; CoLab also enables users to control download permissions. Now designers can share an unreleased file for review while ensuring that file can't be downloaded — and therefore can’t make its way to the production floor or machine shop in error. However, for simple file sharing, permitted users can easily enable file downloads.&nbsp; This ensures that time is focused on the most up-to-date files and reviewers have a clear picture of what’s changed. This review queue, with integrated revision control, means reviews are efficient and version management is simple. <br> ‍ For external collaboration, CoLab brings Kraken’s customers the context they need. Kraken securely shares design files with customers in 3D, provides customers with the context they need, and then initiates the review. In person, or on their own time, CoLab’s 3D reviews allow Kraken’s global collaborators to execute the review at their convenience — with feedback coming to the Kraken team in real time.&nbsp; \"I can start on a review and, if I get called away, I can jump back in and pick up in the same place. It also gives me a place to collaborate with my team on issues. We can debate changes right on the discussion thread for the issue itself until we come to a resolution. Then we’ve got an automatic record of our decisions right there, \" says Walsh. The best part? Context. Customers and suppliers can view and evaluate the actual 3D model. CoLab’s presentation tool allows designers to walk a reviewer through critical views of the model with all metadata, analysis tools, and file details available. Kraken provides customers with the highest level of quality and service — giving them meaningful insight into the design process — without wasting time.<br>‍ ‍ ‍ Centralized reviews and issue tracking, integrated revision control, and in-context collaboration mean Kraken is achieving higher quality standards through these efficiencies. After adopting CoLab in 2019, the Kraken team successfully <a target=\"_blank\" href=\"https://krakenrobotics.com/kraken-achieves-iso-90012015-certification-for-quality-management-system/\">achieved ISO 9001 certification</a> in 2021.<br><br>“ISO certification focuses on documentation and traceability. CoLab is a big help with that. With CoLab, we document histories of everything automatically just by doing the work. Everything else is stored in a paperless digital record,” says Walsh.<br><br> Kraken is now exploring the opportunity to expand their use of the software to additional engineering teams, locations, offices, and divisions. Ranked a Top 100 marine technology company by Marine Technology Reporter, Kraken has beat out some major industry players to secure significant contracts in recent years — including a <strong>$35-40 million (CAD)</strong> agreement to provide new sonar technology, underwater vehicles, and state-of-the-art autonomous launch and recovery systems to the Danish Navy. Together, Kraken and CoLab are setting a new standard for <strong>design review efficiency</strong>, with <strong>quality at the core</strong>.&nbsp; <br>",
"url": "http://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/kraken-robotics-leads-in-quality-through-design-review-efficiency",
"title": "Case Study: Kraken Robotics + CoLab"