Contact Sales: sales@colabsoftware.com
General Inquiries: hello@colabsoftware.com
support@colabsoftware.com
CoLab makes your new product development process more effective by helping your team catch mistakes earlier, source components faster, and trace design decisions in seconds. Most design review happens in meetings: one person controls CAD, everyone else just observes. What if you could make everyone an active participant in design review? With CoLab, multiple engineers can interrogate a model and give and receive feedback together in real time. When everyone gets engaged, teams spot new ideas and catch more mistakes. Mistakes happen. But it’s better to catch them earlier - during design review - rather than later, during testing. CoLab helps you catch more mistakes by standardizing your design review processes, so they happen early and often. CoLab’s Request Review workflows let you set up single or multistage reviews, request changes to files, track revisions, and close a review once all issues have been resolved. CoLab simplifies supplier studies, so you can find the right solution faster. With CoLab, you can share native CAD securely with suppliers, even if they use a different CAD program than you do. If you’re getting proposals from multiple vendors, you can use Portals (Portal) to share the same file with every vendor. Your internal team will see all design feedback from every vendor in one place. But the vendors will only see users and feedback from their own company. Launching a new product means sourcing and integrating hundreds of components. How do you keep track of it all, when there’s multiple conversations happening about every component – all buried in a dozen peoples’ inboxes? With CoLab, all of your design review happens in one place and it’s tracked automatically. That means you can get a bird’s eye view - or trace any individual decision - in seconds.
CoLab provides secure file sharing that works with your PLM system, so you can get better, faster design feedback from your suppliers. Can’t shake the feeling there must be a better way to collaborate with suppliers? With CoLab, you get the fast, simple sharing experience you’ve been missing. Share CAD and drawings in the Cloud, straight from your PLM—no need to waste time on lengthy email exchanges. Everyone has access to the latest version, and comments are tied directly to the design file so there’s never any confusion. It’s that easy. Up to 80% of drawings and models get shared by suppliers (to their suppliers), without you ever knowing. Regain control of your critical IP with secure, traceable sharing. CoLab lets you create unlimited workspaces, each with custom permissions to view, share, or download files. That means everyone - from colleagues to suppliers- gets the access they need. When you’re done collaborating, you can shut access off just as easily. One missed change is all it takes to end up with production delays and scrapped parts. But managing your inbox gets messy fast, especially with multiple partners. Unlike email, CoLab organizes revisions and feedback in one place so that nothing slips through the cracks. That way, every design decision gets made with up-to-date info, and it’s all 100% traceable. With CoLab, you can tap into your supplier’s design expertise. CoLab lets suppliers comment directly on drawings and 3D models, making it easy for them to proactively participate in your design process. Get better input on designs and manufacturability, and get to market faster. Supplier subscriptions are included at no additional cost.
Our founders are mechanical engineers who've worked on innovative technology ranging from advanced medical devices and electric cars to breakthrough Hyperloop pod design and billion-dollar energy projects. But across the industry, no matter what tech they worked on, one thing was always the same: every team was stuck using archaic processes for working together—and it was slowing them down. So, instead of wishing and waiting for a better way, Adam and Jeremy parked their design careers... and started building the tools engineers deserve. Adam is a mechanical engineer who co-founded CoLab out of sheer frustration when he saw how engineers were being held back by inadequate tools for working together. He led development of one of the world’s first Hyperloop vehicles (taking home 2nd place internationally at SpaceX’s 2017 competition), he's invented an electric propulsion system for large-scale aircraft, designed systems for biology-guided radiotherapy, and managed elements of multi-billion dollar energy projects—just to name a few achievements! Jeremy is a mechanical engineer and programming enthusiast who co-founded CoLab after running into the same problem everywhere in industry: the tools available to engineering teams were decades behind the software industry. From captaining Memorial University’s award-winning SAE Baja team and working as a designer on the Paradigm Hyperloop team to experience with industry heavy-hitters like Tesla and General Dynamics, one of Jeremy’s many accomplishments includes designing “the most complex wire harness ever used in a Tesla battery pack.” Taylor has worked with hundreds of engineers across the design and manufacturing space to clarify their challenges, understand their goals, and help solve the tough problems holding their team back. She led the Enactus Memorial team to a world championship win for their work using grassroots hydroponics to address food insecurity in Canada's North—the first Canadian team to ever claim the title. In 2020 Taylor was named one of Atlantic Canada’s Top 30 Under 30 Innovators. Bringing his 25+ years of impressive experience in the business of tech solutions to CoLab, Jason is an empathetic and hands-on leader with a knack for navigating the complex. He’s held a number of leadership positions—CEO, President, CRO, and numerous executive roles in enterprise sales—and has worked in Canada and USA across both private and public companies, ranging from pre-revenue to $4B in revenue. And, aside from being an astute strategic thinker and a proven leader, Jason has competed internationally as a world-class triathlete! As CoLab’s VP Marketing, MJ brings a mix of industrial and Software as a Service (SaaS) experience to her role. Prior to CoLab, MJ led sales and marketing at Refine Labs, where she worked with 50+ venture backed B2B software companies on demand generation. Before that, she spent 6 years working at FTSE 100 Halma plc, a group of mid-sized manufacturing businesses focused on medical, environmental, and safety technology. With a career spanning more than two decades and covering the education, digital imaging, telecommunications, healthcare, energy/utilities, and financial sectors—Robert brings a wealth of information technology and cybersecurity knowledge to the CoLab team. From high-level security strategy to low-level packet analysis, this lifelong autodidact has done it all. A strong supporter of the security community, Robert is a primary organizer and volunteer for the annual Security BSides conference: Newfoundland and Labrador’s only dedicated information and cybersecurity event. After spending more than 20 years honing his skills in finance, Jim brought his talents to the CoLab team. A seasoned executive, he’s experienced in advising, building and leading organizations through financing, restructurings, mergers & acquisitions, location expansion, large project development, and capital markets transactions. Jim is an excellent negotiator and has an impressive track record of delivering results. With 20 years of product and design leadership under his belt across the medical, tech, insurance, and media industries—Peter is a multi-award winner for digital design direction, including hardware from the Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ) Awards and Canadian Screen Awards. He’s passionate about solving tough problems by crafting solutions that are simple and elegant. In fact, at CoLab, we even have a term for when he takes a rough thumbnail and transforms it into a beautiful design: Peter-ing it! Steph has spent over 15 years helping people and companies grow. With the majority of her experience in the technology industry, working with companies in early and hyper-growth stages, she believes in fostering and promoting value-based cultures that put people first and in unlocking the potential within each of us to achieve greatness. And Steph is pretty great at it—with awards that prove it, like Canada’s Top 100 Employers, Canada’s Top 10 Cultures, and Best Places to Work in Atlantic Canada! (Plus being personally awarded “Bubbliest Personality” by popular demand.) Anna’s spent the last 15+ years in sales and account management in radio, software, and response center industries. Anna blends that experience with a teaching background to help customers see and experience a big future. Thriving on people and partnerships, she believes that the keys to any relationship are honesty, trust, and humour. Outside of CoLab, Anna is involved in not-for profit-boards, trail sports, and adventuring. Over the past decade, Levin has successfully designed, built, and scaled products for leading technology companies such as Trello, Atlassian, Shopify, Dropbox, and Vox Media. His passion for design led him to organize and host a web and design conference in his hometown, and his Shopify Apps are used and enjoyed worldwide. Always with a beginner’s mindset, Levin is passionate about learning, challenging the status quo, and embracing difficult problems. Colette came to CoLab with more than 20 years of legal experience in tech, spanning all the way from local startups and scale-ups to global publicly-traded companies. Starting out as a technical writer early on, she saw the need for targeted legal services in Newfoundland and Labrador’s growing tech sector. She made the switch to law, and ever since has dedicated her career to providing legal advice in the areas of data privacy, intellectual property, commercial negotiations, and corporate financing/governance.
CoLab Headquartered in St. John’s, NL, Canada, Founded in 2017, Growing 3X YoY, 80 employees globally, Backed by Largest Software Investor in World
pillars of colab, or pillars of Colab are Portals, Drive, Feedback, Reviews, Track, Visualization, Insights, and Integration. Portals: Patent pending method of collaboration and sharing in real-time or async. Drive: Google Drive-esque system that integrates with PLM to organize files and data under review.  Feedback: Contextual (and soon configurable) feedback with integrated markup system. Reviews: Design review engine with checklists and feedback, automates records and extends the digital thread. Track: Automation layer to consolidate all feedback and review data to make it viewable without manual effort in tables and Kanbans. Visualization: Visualize and evaluate 30+ 3D formats, drawings, documents, photos and more. Create your own 3D presentations. Insights: Proprietary data and insights used to improve review processes. Integration: Direct Integration to PTC Windchill. Enterprise API. More integrations coming. Cloud Native SaaS Platform - Enterprise Grade Security, Low Cost of Ownership
What You Can Do Easily in CoLab: Set up a workflow, so you never miss a step, Exchange feedback in context by pinning comments directly to drawings and models, Share 2D and 3D files with teammates, suppliers, or customers via secure web link
What CoLab Automates for You: Notifications bring your attention to what’s most important, whether that’s a new revision or a high-priority issue, Track automatically populates and organizes issues and feedback so you never miss an action item, Track organizes reviews into a Kanban board – progress update: automated
(what is insights, what is colab insights) CoLab Insight is a new feature coming in April 2023 (CoLab Insights, CoLab Insight): Some early testing results for CoLab Insights: Beta Customer A: Reduced NPD by 27%, Reduced Cost by ~50%: Beta Customer B: Reduced Cost by 11%, Beta Customer C: Reduced Defects/Drawing from 12 to 0.7.
Quote from Ford - Accelerating New Products w/ Partners using CoLab: 30% reduction in NPD timeline for conversion programs., Spent the last nine months working together to improve engineering effectiveness to shorten PD cycles and reduce engineering change impact. , Ford Pro uses CoLab to share CAD with their partners on demand and, because there’s no need for downloads, IP remains safe inside a secure environment. Plus, it’s all integrated back into, Ford’s existing PLM rolling out to all partners in 2023.
Quote for supply chain collaboration in CoLab: 75% less time, 6-figure savings: “FCA is constantly sending revisions to their parts or components. We can see in CoLab what it was, what it is now, and assess it much better than we could before. The review of changes is much faster and more accurate for my engineering team. That's a very big benefit for us.” - Hak Park, Engineering Manager
Adam Keating, Co-founder and CEO at CoLab, adam@colabsoftware.com, linkedin.com/in/adammichaelkeating
Engineering teams use CoLab to engage in meaningful, productive design conversations to catch preventable mistakes and get to market faster. 50% of engineering teams working on new products say speed is the #1 priority Sharing files should be simple, but it’s a nightmare
Problems that engineering teams face that CoLab can solve: Missed mistakes turn into redesigns, Engineers are stuck updating spreadsheets, Info gets buried in messy email chains
CoLab lets you share design files and feedback, all tracked in one place. With more context and less admin work, teams can review designs 2x faster., With a Design Engagement System, your engineering collaboration stays organized
Share drawings and 3D models with anyone, while controlling who has permission to view and download files.
Pin design feedback directly on a drawing or 3D model, so there’s never any confusion.
As you review a file, CoLab automatically tracks and organizes your design feedback for you.
CoLab does for design conversations what your PLM system does for product data. As your go-to tool for engineering collaboration, CoLab centralizes all the decision-making that happens in between CAD and PLM. So getting feedback is simpler, faster, and automatically tracked in one place.
No need to overcomplicate it. CoLab is built with practical use cases in mind that focus on the areas with maximum impact for your team—so you can get up and running in weeks, not years.
CoLab helps engineering teams achieve 6, 7, and 8-figure cost reduction targets by giving you a repeatable way to run highly engaging value analysis events with groups of any size.
It shouldn’t be hard to tap into your supplier’s expertise. CoLab lets you share CAD securely with suppliers, enabling fast and effective Design for Manufacturability (DFM) conversations.
Whether you’re discussing a prototype or a production drawing, CoLab makes sure everyone is on the same page. Review designs together, in 3D, and pin feedback directly to a model or drawing.
CoLab gives you a way to standardize your cost reduction approach and run virtual or hybrid events — so you can spend less time on logistics, include more people, and start executing ideas sooner.
Generate more (and better) ideas when you use CoLab for your cost reduction or value analysis/value engineering (VA/VE) initiatives. CoLab makes it easy to communicate about design with large groups, collaborate cross-functionally, and have more meaningful back-and-forth conversations that spark new ideas.
Before, you had to get everyone in one room to run a cost down event. Now, CoLab gives you an easy way to host virtual or hybrid events. That means you can include more people, get more input, and hold more events, more often — all while saving big bucks by spending less on travel.
Here’s the problem with sticky notes on a whiteboard: sometimes, ideas get lost in translation. With CoLab, you don’t have to waste time searching for answers to questions like, “what part number were they talking about when they wrote this?” You can comment directly on 3D models and drawings. That means more time to focus on actual engineering work, like implementing those changes in production.
Cost-saving ideas only work if they get implemented, so we take the admin work off your plate and let you focus on executing. CoLab automatically records ideas as you create them and the Track feature gives you a bird’s-eye view of all your ideas in one place. So it’s easy to discuss, prioritize, or follow up on any idea at any time., Host virtual events with more team members, Generate up to 100% more ideas per event, Simplify follow up and eliminate headaches