Value Analysis and Value Engineering (VA/VE) are tried-and-true techniques for engineering-led cost reduction, but many teams lack a structured, repeatable framework for running VA/VE effectively. Find out how you can develop a stronger VA/VE strategy that keeps your idea pipeline flowing.
What is VA/VE in mechanical engineering?
Value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE) are distinct but related concepts within product development. In the simplest terms, VA/VE refers to a methodology for optimizing product value. This can be done by reducing costs while preserving functionality, and/or by enhancing functionality without increasing costs.

VA/VE involves systematically looking for opportunities to improve a product. This typically means analyzing a product’s overall design, its individual components and functions, and/or its manufacturing and production processes. The goal is to optimize the value a product delivers by maximizing its benefits while minimizing its costs.

Rather than a single, specific framework for VA/VE, there are many ways to execute value methodology. What differentiates VA/VE from other problem-solving approaches is its focus on function analysis via structured process. No matter what a VA/VE process looks like, it will involve 1) assessing a product, 2) understanding its functionality and customer priorities, and 3) identifying alternate ways to meet or exceed the relevant requirements.

For some companies, VA/VE is just one piece of a broader cost reduction plan. Yet, although finance-led and procurement-led cost reduction tactics are still common, more and more businesses are identifying engineering-led cost reduction efforts (such as VA/VE) as a strategic priority — particularly in response to the current global economic climate. Pressures like inflation and supply chain disruption are reducing the effectiveness of traditional go-to methods for achieving cost reduction goals, which is causing more engineering businesses to step up their investment in dedicated VA/VE programs and job roles.

The basic purpose of VA/VE is not difficult to grasp: it’s all about improving value. That happens either by eliminating unnecessary costs, or by making the product better without increasing costs. (Of course, the holy grail is to consistently generate an idea pipeline full of ways to do both at once!)

In other words, the goal of VA/VE is to ask: Can we spend less while delivering the same end value? Or, can we spend the same amount but deliver greater value?
VA is also intended to recover costs from earlier phases of the product lifecycle. During new product development (NPD), the benefits of getting to market faster tend to outweigh the potential benefits of optimizing initial product costs. That means speed and quality typically take priority over cost. However, once a new product is introduced, it’s crucial to use VA techniques to uncover potential cost-saving opportunities.

Ultimately, the true purpose of VA/VE boils down to having a positive impact on the business. When an effective VA/VE process is executed consistently, it produces tangible business results like lower expenses, higher customer satisfaction, and increased market share.

The difference between value analysis and value engineering: Although value analysis and value engineering share the same ultimate goal, they are deployed at different points in a product’s lifecycle. While the concepts are distinct, even seasoned engineers may use the terms “VA” and “VE” almost interchangeably. Yet part of building an effective VA/VE process is considering when, where, and how to use each method.

The difference between value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE) is: Value engineering focuses on finding cost savings during the initial design phase. Value analysis focuses on finding cost savings for existing products
In other words: value engineering involves optimizing value from the outset of the design process, before launching a product to market. Conversely, value analysis applies to existing products with at least one complete design and production cycle.
To illustrate this difference with examples of value engineering and value analysis, consider a simple plastic bottle. Imagine the closure design consists of a delivery nozzle that threads onto the bottle and a separate sealing cap that attaches to the nozzle. 
Through VA, you may uncover an opportunity for significant cost savings by redesigning the closure into an integrated sealing cap-nozzle that provides both functions in one component. On the other hand, VE is more about cost avoidance than cost reduction. So with a VE approach, the bottle’s closure redesign would happen before the initial product launch, as part of NPD.

How to separate function vs. feature: Understanding a product’s function is at the core of value analysis and value engineering. 
In this context, function refers to the product’s essential purpose: a car’s function is transportation, whereas a chair’s function is to provide seating. A feature, on the other hand, is a specific aspect or characteristic of a product — like the leather interior of a luxury car, or the material used to upholster an armchair.
When performing VA/VE, it’s important to distinguish between functions and features. This can be done using techniques such as functional decomposition (breaking the product down into its component parts and identifying the function of each) or functional analysis (describing a product in terms of its functions and how they’re performed).
Identifying the functions of a product and separating them from the features is part of the systematic and analytical approach of VA/VE. Before you can generate cost-saving ideas or redesign the product, you need to have a strong understanding of where it already stands. By getting a clear picture of what the product needs to achieve and how it currently achieves it, you’ll have the information you need to find and assess potential savings opportunities.

Why do you need VA/VE? Engineering companies that neglect to develop a robust VA/VE strategy in the coming years will have a harder time competing for customers, talent, and market share. On the other hand, creating a strong VA/VE culture is a smart strategic move that can have big ROI when done well.
When it comes to new products, an effective VA/VE process is a necessary counterbalance to the demands of typical NPD. The iron triangle of Good, Fast, and Cheap — of which only two are achievable at a time — deprioritizes cost when leaders want high-quality solutions in a hurry. Despite the importance of profitability, the choice must be Good and Fast to keep up with the rapid pace of business. That’s why companies rely on techniques like value analysis to recover cost in later product phases.
From a broader business perspective, VA/VE is a fundamental tool for engineering-led cost reduction initiatives. Traditional finance-led or procurement-led cost reduction efforts aren’t being abandoned. But they’re no longer going to be sufficient, either. 
To continue meeting targets, large engineering enterprises will need to grow their investment in engineering-led cost reduction programs including VA/VE. This is due to factors such as:

Overall macroeconomic climate (recession, market conditions)
Added external pressures like supply chain disruptions and global affairs
Accelerated product development cycles with lofty time-to-market goals
Rising product complexity that requires multidisciplinary expertise and collaboration
Rather than negotiating with suppliers for incremental cost improvements, VA/VE is a way for engineering teams to design cost out. By focusing upstream, on a product’s design and design processes, engineering-led cost reduction can generate substantial cost savings opportunities — in a way that other cost reduction methods simply cannot.
VA/VE methodology
The value of a product can be expressed as the ratio of its benefits to its costs. This value ratio can be calculated using the following formula: Value = Function / Costs. 
VA/VE methodology seeks to increase the value ratio of a component or process by increasing function, decreasing cost, or both. There are different approaches to VA/VE, but the main concept involves breaking the product down into its component parts and evaluating each one — all in a structured, systematic way.

7 steps of an effective VA/VE process
From selecting the best product for analysis to assessing and prioritizing ideas to implement, the VA/VE process can be long and complex. While no framework is perfect, it helps to have a rough idea of all the steps involved from start to finish.
Here are 7 steps for a quality-driven VA/VE process: Product selection, Cost Pareto,Marketing and voice-of-consumer interviews, Manufacturing process go-and-see, Review of prior work and design review and ideation with product SMEs, Ideation with engineering and design from external team members, Idea summaries scored and presented

"content": "Value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE) are distinct but related concepts within product development. In the simplest terms, VA/VE refers to a methodology for optimizing product value. This can be done by reducing costs while preserving functionality, and/or by enhancing functionality without increasing costs. VA/VE involves systematically looking for opportunities to improve a product. This typically means analyzing a product’s overall design, its individual components and functions, and/or its manufacturing and production processes. The goal is to optimize the value a product delivers by maximizing its benefits while minimizing its costs. Rather than a single, specific framework for VA/VE, there are many ways to execute value methodology. What differentiates VA/VE from other problem-solving approaches is its focus on function analysis via structured process. No matter what a VA/VE process looks like, it will involve 1) assessing a product, 2) understanding its functionality and customer priorities, and 3) identifying alternate ways to meet or exceed the relevant requirements. For some companies, VA/VE is just one piece of a broader cost reduction plan. Yet, although finance-led and procurement-led cost reduction tactics are still common, more and more businesses are identifying engineering-led cost reduction</a> efforts (such as VA/VE) as a strategic priority — particularly in response to the current global economic climate. Pressures like inflation and supply chain disruption are reducing the effectiveness of traditional go-to methods for achieving cost reduction goals, which is causing more engineering businesses to step up their investment in dedicated VA/VE programs and job roles. The basic purpose of VA/VE is not difficult to grasp: it’s all about improving value. That happens either by eliminating unnecessary costs, or by making the product better without increasing costs. (Of course, the holy grail is to consistently generate an idea pipeline full of ways to do both at once!) VA is also intended to recover costs from earlier phases of the product lifecycle. During new product development (NPD), the benefits of getting to market faster tend to outweigh the potential benefits of optimizing initial product costs. That means speed and quality typically take priority over cost. However, once a new product is introduced, it’s crucial to use VA techniques to uncover potential cost-saving opportunities. Ultimately, the true purpose of VA/VE boils down to having a positive impact on the business. When an effective VA/VE process</a> is executed consistently, it produces tangible business results like lower expenses, higher customer satisfaction, and increased market share. Although value analysis and value engineering share the same ultimate goal, they are deployed at different points in a product’s lifecycle. While the concepts are distinct, even seasoned engineers may use the terms “VA” and “VE” almost interchangeably. Yet part of building an effective VA/VE process</a> is considering when, where, and how to use each method. The difference between value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE) is: In other words: value engineering involves optimizing value from the outset of the design process, before launching a product to market. Conversely, value analysis applies to existing products with at least one complete design and production cycle. To illustrate this difference with examples of value engineering and value analysis</a>, consider a simple plastic bottle. Imagine the closure design consists of a delivery nozzle that threads onto the bottle and a separate sealing cap that attaches to the nozzle.&nbsp; Through VA, you may uncover an opportunity for significant cost savings by redesigning the closure into an integrated sealing cap-nozzle that provides both functions in one component. On the other hand, VE is more about cost <em>avoidance</em> than cost <em>reduction</em>. So with a VE approach, the bottle’s closure redesign would happen before the initial product launch, as part of NPD. Understanding a product’s <strong>function</strong> is at the core of value analysis and value engineering.&nbsp; In this context, function refers to the product’s essential purpose: a car’s function is transportation, whereas a chair’s function is to provide seating. A feature, on the other hand, is a specific aspect or characteristic of a product — like the leather interior of a luxury car, or the material used to upholster an armchair. When performing VA/VE, it’s important to distinguish between functions and features. This can be done using techniques such as functional decomposition (breaking the product down into its component parts and identifying the function of each) or functional analysis (describing a product in terms of its functions and how they’re performed). Identifying the functions of a product and separating them from the features is part of the systematic and analytical approach of VA/VE. Before you can generate cost-saving ideas or redesign the product, you need to have a strong understanding of where it already stands. By getting a clear picture of what the product needs to achieve and how it currently achieves it, you’ll have the information you need to find and assess potential savings opportunities. Engineering companies that neglect to develop a robust VA/VE strategy in the coming years will have a harder time competing for customers, talent, and market share. On the other hand, creating a strong VA/VE culture is a smart strategic move that can have big ROI when done well. When it comes to new products, an effective VA/VE process</a> is a necessary counterbalance to the demands of typical NPD. The iron triangle of Good, Fast, and Cheap — of which only two are achievable at a time — deprioritizes cost when leaders want high-quality solutions in a hurry. Despite the importance of profitability, the choice must be Good and Fast to keep up with the rapid pace of business. That’s why companies rely on techniques like value analysis to recover cost in later product phases. From a broader business perspective, VA/VE is a fundamental tool for engineering-led cost reduction initiatives</a>. Traditional finance-led or procurement-led cost reduction efforts aren’t being abandoned. But they’re no longer going to be sufficient, either.&nbsp; To continue meeting targets, large engineering enterprises will need to grow their investment in engineering-led cost reduction programs including VA/VE. This is due to factors such as: Rather than negotiating with suppliers for incremental cost improvements, VA/VE is a way for engineering teams to design cost out. By focusing upstream, on a product’s design and design processes, engineering-led cost reduction can generate substantial cost savings opportunities — in a way that other cost reduction methods simply cannot. ‍ The value of a product can be expressed as the ratio of its benefits to its costs. This value ratio can be calculated using the following formula: Value = Function / Costs VA/VE methodology seeks to increase the value ratio of a component or process by increasing function, decreasing cost, or both. There are different approaches to VA/VE, but the main concept involves breaking the product down into its component parts and evaluating each one — all in a structured, systematic way. From selecting the best product for analysis to assessing and prioritizing ideas to implement, the VA/VE process can be long and complex. While no framework is perfect, it helps to have a rough idea of all the steps involved from start to finish. Here are 7 steps for a quality-driven VA/VE process</a>: ‍ ‍ Of course, there’s no one-size-fits-all template that can tell you exactly how to improve your VA/VE approach. That’s going to depend entirely on your role, your team, business needs, strategic priorities, resource constraints, organizational culture, and a whole host of other factors. However, there are some general principles that anyone can apply to boost the impact of engineering-led cost reduction initiatives</a>. Here are 3 tips for a stronger VA/VE program</a>: ‍ ‍ Since VA/VE can be applied in a broad range of industries, there are many different examples of VA/VE</a> and how it works. Depending on the product being evaluated and the goals of the VA/VE process, the specific techniques and tools used in VA/VE will vary from team to team. <strong>Value analysis example</strong> Optimizing a plastic bottle closure design is an example of VA. A commercially-available bottle may have a delivery nozzle that threads onto the bottle and a separate sealing cap that attaches to the nozzle, protecting it from the air that could evaporate the product’s fluid. The cost Pareto may show that the sealing cap is significant to the overall product cost, leading the engineering team to design an integrated sealing cap-nozzle that provides both functions in one component. This solution would likely require additional tooling for the new shape. Still, it would reduce a significant amount of material by removing a component (also a sustainability win) and the assembly time to place and install the cap. In addition, this design change would reduce manufacturing tolerance stack-ups that could reduce scrap rate or introduce an additional leak path. <strong>Value engineering example</strong> Assembling two mature piece parts is an example of VE. A customer may ask the manufacturer to construct the joint between two system components. The initial design may amount to a bolt-on solution accomplished by extending mating flanges to the existing components to attach the parts. Engineers could run this step through a VE analysis before launch to consider redesigning a more integrated joint, using less material, and potentially recommending a different manufacturing technique to incorporate joints into a single component. ‍ VA/VE should be less a lever to pull when you need to improve profitability and more a strategic mindset shift in the approach to extracting the most value from a product's total cost of ownership (TCO). Given that emphasis, VA/VE principles are ideal tools to unlock profit while optimizing the supply chain. The VA/VE project team can extend their assessment to add the total cost of ownership (TCO) across the entire supply chain to the manufacturing process and product design analyses to find areas to remove waste. These factors are additive to the cost savings potential, but team members must consider potential interdependencies or conflicts between procurement, manufacturing, and design before proposing a cost savings idea. A critical component of a VA/VE project is the manufacturing process go-and-see, where the project team observes the manufacturing process. But before diving into the process, the team should analyze setup and changeover time in addition to the capital situation. Setup and changeover are non-value-add steps, so organizing multiple component runs on the same asset to reduce setup and minimize changes can increase daily throughput. Another opportunity for VA/VE in the supply chain</a> is capital expenditure, often a considerable investment. The team can look at depreciation schedules and expected replacement timing to tie product design changes to the new equipment. Considering capital during VA/VE improves the ROI of a VA/VE idea substantially and helps the business know when to execute the change. Finally, observing the manufacturing process itself may uncover opportunities. Any operator movement outside of the direct task at a station is waste. The process should flow smoothly from the intake of one step to its output with minimal wasted movements. Let’s consider a specific example of how VA/VE can be used in the automotive industry. Lightweight materials reduce the total weight of a vehicle, thus improving its fuel efficiency and its value to customers. The VA/VE process can help you determine whether or not it’s worth changing a vehicle’s design to incorporate lighter materials. First, you might conduct a function analysis to identify the key components and systems of a vehicle that contribute to its weight — such as the body, chassis, and engine. From there, you can build a cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the possibility of using&nbsp; lightweight materials like aluminum or composite materials. This might involve redesigning the body, chassis, and engine, as well as evaluating the potential impact on the manufacturing process and supply chain. If the VA/VE team discovers that using lightweight materials would provide significant value and cost savings, these changes can be implemented to the vehicle design to improve fuel efficiency and performance. ‍ ‍ For global technology and industrial leader Johnson Controls (JCI), VA/VE is a big priority. Historically, JCI’s VA/VE program revolved around in-person events that happened once or twice a year. The events required flying team members from around the world to a factory location for 2-3 jam-packed days of walking the factory floor and trying to come up with as many ideas as possible. When the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted international travel in 2020, Johnson Controls quickly pivoted their VA/VE approach and began running virtual events in CoLab instead. Since adopting CoLab for VA/VE events, the JCI team realized there were downsides to the old approach of doing everything in person: With CoLab, those barriers disappeared — and idea generation <strong>doubled</strong>.&nbsp; Get the full scoop on how JCI leveled up their cost reduction results in https://www.colabsoftware.com/case-studies/johnson-controls-builds-industry-leading-engineering-change-and-design-review-process.",
"url": "https://www.colabsoftware.com/va-ve-for-mechanical-engineering-teams-how-to-upgrade-your-approach-in-2023",
"title": "VA/VE for Mechanical Engineering Teams: How to Upgrade Your Approach in 2023"

"content": "Let’s face it. It’s long past time for the engineering world to start thinking differently about cost reduction. With the current state of the market, there’s growing pressure on engineering teams to do more with less. Cost down targets are getting more and more aggressive to counter the effects of inflation and supply chain disruptions. Yet many companies don’t have a strong enough VA/VE strategy in place to actually reach their ambitious cost reduction goals. Beyond standard finance-led and procurement-led initiatives, there’s growing recognition of the need to develop more mature processes for engineering-led cost reduction. It’s no longer enough to rely solely on traditional tactics like negotiating with suppliers or dual-sourcing parts. That’s why astute engineering companies are already prioritizing and scaling their VA/VE programs to keep up with today’s competitive environment. Because at this point, how you execute VA/VE is critical. If you’re not consistently reducing costs and making your product better, you’re going to have to cut costs somewhere else. Which most likely means cutting people from your team, or deciding not to make new hires. Either way, it limits your capacity as a company and creates a vicious cycle that can be hard to reverse. So if you need to step up your VA/VE game this year, here are 3 ways you can improve your engineering-led cost reduction efforts right now. ‍ ‍ ‍ In a perfect world, it’d be a breeze for pretty much <em>anyone</em> to participate in your VA/VE process.&nbsp; More people means more perspectives, more viewpoints, more expertise, more cross-functional collaboration — and ultimately more cost-saving ideas. Which sounds great in theory, of course. But engineers know better than anyone that we do not, in fact, live in a perfect world. So what’s preventing engineering companies from maximizing participation in VA/VE Common roadblocks to getting more people involved in your VA/VE initiatives include: The legacy approach to VA/VE is largely an event-based model. But the teams that are succeeding right now are making the shift from workshop-centric to workshop-augmented. While that doesn’t mean meetings or in-person events will disappear completely (or even that they should), it does mean their role in a successful VA/VE strategy is changing. Having your engineering-led cost reduction efforts revolve around a workshop approach isn’t conducive to fostering a culture of continuous VA/VE. The easier you can make it for people to capture and share ideas on an ongoing basis, the better your results will be. After all, creativity and innovation are highly spontaneous and iterative in nature — which sometimes clashes with the core format of traditional event-based VA/VE. Without a place to document ideas as they come up and work collaboratively in a flexible way, it’s very difficult to cultivate a strong VA/VE culture. But if you create a system that allows for continuous, asynchronous VA/VE contributions, it can start to become second nature for your team to keep better track of potential cost savings ideas. That way, you always have a full pipeline of quality ideas to prioritize and implement. ‍ Some or all of your VA/VE work may already happen virtually. However, there’s a big difference between an old VA/VE process that’s been digitized… and a new VA/VE process that’s been redesigned for digital. (With most companies likely falling somewhere in between, in reality.) If your VA/VE program currently has zero virtual components whatsoever, you might want to consider that a red flag. For most engineering companies, though, the next step in going virtual is to move beyond tools like Microsoft Teams, PDFs, and PowerPoints. Teams is not enough, because it comes with the same problems as a meeting room. Just like in-person events, virtual workshops have limitations. If you’re using a combination of video calls and document-based collaboration — ie: meetings and messages back and forth with attachments or links to shared drives — it’s difficult to have good, effective, innovative discussions. Nobody does their best work within a messy email chain that’s 27 replies long (and counting). So while things like Teams calls might always play some part in your VA/VE strategy, it’s important to approach your virtual VA/VE processes the same way you’d approach any engineering challenge. When you do so, here are two important requirements to keep in mind: Think about your current VA/VE program. Who participates? Who gets left out? What teams or departments are represented? How often does the work happen? How does the work happen? Where does it happen? What are the barriers to entry?&nbsp; Maybe you’d like to tap into your suppliers’ design expertise and collaborate more closely on designing cost out, right from the outset of a project. Maybe you’d like to get earlier and more frequent input from other disciplines within your company. Maybe you’d like to formalize your idea pipeline and generate a steadier stream of potential cost-saving opportunities. Maybe you’d simply like to cut down on the amount of work it takes every time you need to set up, organize, and orchestrate another VA/VE event. Once you’ve clarified what your ideal VA/VE program could look like — whatever that is — then you can work backwards and identify the specific barriers that are stopping you from achieving it. Figure out where you can unlock the most value. You won’t be able to solve everything at once, but you can break things into manageable chunks and pick a strategic place to start.&nbsp; Because cost reduction targets aren’t going to get any easier to hit, not anytime soon.&nbsp; So investing your time into developing a stronger VA/VE strategy and culture? As an engineering leader, right now that’s one of the highest-ROI decisions you can make for your company.<br><br><br><em>This article is part of the Effective Engineering series by CoLab. Every 1-2 weeks, we publish right-to-the-point insights on effective product development.",
"url": "https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/3-practical-ways-to-modernize-your-va-ve-process",
"title": "3 practical ways to modernize your VA/VE process"

"content": "Supply Chain has been an important theme in our daily lives since the pandemic's beginning and still presents significant hurdles today. It is all about flow: the process takes raw materials, moves and converts them several times, and produces an accessible finished good for the end user or consumer. While the concept is simple, a break in just one of the many links in the chain can disrupt the entire process. As a result, we've learned to prioritize resiliency to avoid supply disruption, which often adds inefficiency and inventory cost, which hurts, especially during unyielding inflation. So how can you increase your ability to fulfill customer orders without destroying profitability? Enter value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE). VA/VE should be less a lever to pull when you need to improve profitability and more a strategic mindset shift in the approach to extracting the most value from a product's total cost of ownership (TCO). Given that emphasis, VA/VE principles are ideal tools to unlock profit while optimizing the supply chain.&nbsp; <a href=\"/va-ve-for-mechanical-engineering-teams-how-to-upgrade-your-approach-in-2023\">VA/VE methodology</a> seeks to <a href=\"https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/7-steps-of-an-effective-va-ve-process-that-protect-product-quality\">increase the value ratio</a> of a component or process by increasing function, decreasing cost, or both. The concepts differ because VE targets an initial [pre-launch] product, and VA assesses a commercialized product for optimization. After selecting the product to optimize, the cost Pareto uncovers primary focus areas, not just in the product itself, but its manufacturing process. The VA/VE project team can extend their assessment to add the total cost of ownership (TCO) across the entire supply chain to the manufacturing process and product design analyses to find areas to remove waste. These factors are additive to the cost savings potential, but team members must consider potential interdependencies or conflicts between procurement, manufacturing, and design before proposing a cost savings idea. Procurement is a broad discipline and has several levers for value optimization. One area is purchasing terms, where negotiating reduced supplier lead times can increase throughput. This action shifts the limiting step to another part of the supply chain. In addition to receiving material faster, reducing obsolete inventory can reduce the warehousing overhead cost inherent in every piece. Resiliency is essential to reducing process waste, so creating automatic reorder thresholds at desired inventory levels can reduce the risk of a force majeure. Another necessary step to de-risk supply is building a dual-source supply strategy for every component. While volume levels help reduce piece-part costs, relying on one supplier reduces your leverage and puts you at the mercy of your supplier's resiliency strategy. A final procurement strategy is monitoring your SKUs and product mix. Applying the Pareto (80/20) thinking, looking at the cost, complexity, and ROI at the SKU level can uncover ideas for optimizing material purchases. Is there an aspect of lower-profit SKUs that should influence material buying? This evaluation can also influence product development. A critical component of a VA/VE project is the manufacturing process go-and-see, where the project team observes the manufacturing process. But before diving into the process, the team should analyze setup and changeover time, in addition to the capital situation. Setup and changeover are non-value add steps, so organizing multiple-component runs on the same asset to reduce setup and minimize changes can increase daily throughput. Another opportunity for VA/VE in the supply chain is capital expenditure, often a considerable investment. The team can look at depreciation schedules and expected replacement timing to tie product design changes to the new equipment. Considering capital during VA/VE improves the ROI of a VA/VE idea substantially and helps the business know when to execute the change. Finally, observing the manufacturing process itself may uncover opportunities. Any operator movement outside of the direct task at a station is waste. The process should flow smoothly from the intake of one step to its output with minimal wasted movements. ‍ <em>Supply chain visualization/map</em> – visual aid showing how the parts travel through the process. Assessment questions can include: <em>CoLab</em> – advanced software for VA/VE <a href=\"https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/why-engineering-led-cost-reduction-essential-to-hitting-your-targets\">engineering-led design</a>. This step enhances collaboration to <a href=\"https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/3-strategies-to-unlock-substantial-value-in-your-va-ve-tools\">accelerate value-engineered solutions</a> that feed your supply chain strategy.<br><br> ‍ <em>Cost Pareto</em> – cost waterfall to illustrate where cost components are highest and which aren't worth pursuing.<br><br> ‍ <em>Process observation</em> – watching part manufacturing may show an apparent headache hindering efficiency. Points to consider: ‍ An efficient supply chain is integral to producing the components consumers and businesses use every day. Supply chain optimization presents a significant opportunity for VA/VE with how complex many components are to make. ‍",
"url": "https://www.colabsoftware.com/post/how-to-infuse-supply-chain-optimization-into-your-va-ve-strategy",
"title": "How to Infuse Supply Chain Optimization into Your VA/VE Strategy"






"content": "CoLab offers, and encourages, <strong>SAML Single Sign-on (SSO)</strong>. This allows customer administrators to authorize user access to CoLab directly from their existing identity provider/SSO solution, with support for <strong>all</strong> major identity providers. Access to models, drawings, and derivative data are contained within workspaces that are governed by role-based access control (RBAC). User roles in CoLab’s RBAC system are: <em>Creator</em>, <em>Collaborator</em>, <em>Viewer</em>, and <em>Admin</em>. CoLab uses an industry-recognized, trusted, and secure authentication and authorization service. By providing our customers with a robust solution for user authentication, we help you protect critical identity data. CoLab never stores passwords as clear text—they're always securely hashed and salted using an industry-standard password hashing algorithm. All network communication with CoLab’s authentication and authorization service uses transport layer security (TLS) with advanced encryption standard (AES) encryption. CoLab has <strong>99.5% or higher uptime</strong> CoLab uses Canadian <a href=\"https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-center/controls/\">AWS&nbsp;data centres.</a>  The data and services are hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS) facilities within Canada. CoLab’s Security Team is on call 24/7 to respond to critical security alerts and events. <br> CoLab has designed multiple layers of security monitoring to detect anomalous behaviour. When incidents and security events exceed predetermined thresholds, our Security Team is on-duty 24/7 to take immediate action. <br> CoLab has designed and implemented a multi-layer approach to web application security using an industry-leading provider of web application and internet security services—including web application firewall (WAF)—for network edge defenses, along with AWS protection tools and industry-standard security solutions that add a deeper layer of protection. Access to CoLab production infrastructure is restricted on an explicit need-to-know basis, utilizes least privilege, is continuously audited and monitored, and is controlled by a request and authorization process. Employees accessing CoLab production infrastructure are required to use multiple factors of authentication and strict technical and administrative controls. CoLab was built with disaster recovery in mind. Where service support exists, we use no less than two AWS Canada availability zones. Our disaster recovery process and backups are tested a <strong><em>minimum</em></strong> of two times annually. <br> All CoLab servers are within our own virtual private cloud (VPC). Network access control lists (ACLs) and security groups are properly implemented. <br> All customer data files are backed up in real-time. All data stored within CoLab databases gets backed up every 12 hours, plus immediately before any major product update. <br> On an application level, CoLab produces audit logs for all activity and ships logs to a SIEM (security information and event management) service for analysis, using S3 for archival of critical security logs. All actions taken on CoLab’s production infrastructure or AWS services are logged. <br> Access to customer data is strictly limited to authorized privileged employees who require access for their job responsibilities. All data sent to or from CoLab is encrypted in transit. Our API and application endpoints are <a href=\"https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/transport-layer-security-tls/\">TLS/SSL</a> only and score an “A+” rating on <a href=\"https://www.ssllabs.com/\">Qualys SSL Labs</a>‘ tests. Additionally, all customer data uploaded to CoLab is encrypted at rest using an industry-standard AES-256 encryption algorithm.<br> CoLab uses third-party security tools to continuously scan our codebase for vulnerabilities, addressing applicable vulnerabilities as they are found. Our Security Team includes trained and certified penetration testers who regularly test CoLab’s web application and infrastructure security. Additionally, CoLab engages independent third-party security experts to perform annual detailed penetration tests. <br> All critical security and system alerts are escalated to CoLab’s Security and DevOps Teams, providing the necessary security operations, network, and infrastructure coverage. Applicable employees are trained on security incident response processes, including communication channels and escalation paths. <br> At least once per year, developers participate in secure code training which covers the <a href=\"https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/\">OWASP Top 10</a> security risks, common attack vectors, and CoLab security controls. CoLab’s development codebase is continuously scanned for vulnerabilities using automated vulnerability scanning. We address all identified vulnerabilities as they are discovered. <br> CoLab leverages modern and secure open-source frameworks with security controls to limit exposure to OWASP Top 10 security risks. These inherent controls reduce our exposure to SQL Injection (SQLi), Cross Site Scripting (XSS), Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF), and other common vulnerabilities. Our Quality Assurance (QA) Team continuously reviews and tests our codebase. Dedicated, on-staff penetration testers regularly test for security vulnerabilities in our application code and infrastructure. Testing and staging environments are logically separated from the production environment. No customer data is used in our development or test environments. <br> All employees complete Security Awareness training during onboarding and continually refresh their training. <br> <br> CoLab has developed a comprehensive set of security policies based on NIST, SOC 2, and ISO 27002. These policies are updated as needed, reviewed annually, and communicated clearly to all employees. CoLab performs comprehensive background checks on all new employees as a condition of employment. The background check includes federal and local criminal background checks, as well as employment verification and reference checks. All employee and third-party contracts include a confidentiality agreement. <br> <br>",
"url": "https://www.colabsoftware.com/security",
"title": "Security as a Solution - CoLab"

At CoLab, we believe that engineers should be able to use the best tool for every job. That could mean designing in CAD, reviewing designs in CoLab, then managing product data with PLM. That’s why CoLab is compatible with over 70 file formats and has native integrations with leading CAD and PLM providers. Since the beginning, we’ve wanted to make sharing engineering files easier. No more expensive licenses, software downloads, or taking screenshots as a workaround. With CoLab, you can upload over 70 different file formats – including step, stp, sldprt, 3ds, catpart, dwg, and more. Then, you can send them to anyone and they’ll be able to open the file with a simple web link. CoLab’s out-of-the-box integration with Windchill makes it easy to share files directly from Windchill to CoLab with the click of a button. That means you can feel confident that everyone is reviewing the right version of every file. As you make changes throughout a product’s lifecycle, CoLab gives you traceability, so you can go back and see why a change was made. The CoLab SolidWorks add-in allows you to push models and drawings directly from an active SolidWorks session into your CoLab Workspace. That means you can share design information in CoLab without having to leave the SolidWorks interface. If you’re using SolidWorks with SolidWorks PDM, CoLab can also retrieve and display metadata, like version number or revision number. If you’re not using SolidWorks PDM, you can still use CoLab with SolidWorks. A growing number of CoLab customers are using Teamcenter PLM, and we are working on an out-of-the-box integration. In the meantime, you can talk to an expert about how other Teamcenter clients are using CoLab. Don’t see the integration or compatibility you’re looking for here? CoLab’s API allows developers to build custom integrations that work with CoLab. Contact us to talk details.

CoLab gives you a way to standardize your cost reduction approach and run virtual or hybrid events — so you can spend less time on logistics, include more people, and start executing ideas sooner. Generate more (and better) ideas when you use CoLab for your cost reduction or value analysis/value engineering (VA/VE) initiatives. CoLab makes it easy to communicate about design with large groups, collaborate cross-functionally, and have more meaningful back-and-forth conversations that spark new ideas. Before, you had to get everyone in one room to run a cost down event. Now, CoLab gives you an easy way to host virtual or hybrid events. That means you can include more people, get more input, and hold more events, more often — all while saving big bucks by spending less on travel. Here’s the problem with sticky notes on a whiteboard: sometimes, ideas get lost in translation. With CoLab, you don’t have to waste time searching for answers to questions like, “what part number were they talking about when they wrote this?” You can comment directly on 3D models and drawings. That means more time to focus on actual engineering work, like implementing those changes in production. Cost-saving ideas only work if they get implemented, so we take the admin work off your plate and let you focus on executing. CoLab automatically records ideas as you create them and the Track feature gives you a bird’s-eye view of all your ideas in one place. So it’s easy to discuss, prioritize, or follow up on any idea at any time.

VAVE (VA/VE) definitions: Value Analysis + Value Engineering: Value Analysis (VA): Reviewing the design of a product in production to identify and implement design changes that decrease cost or increase value to the customer. Value Engineering (VE): Reviewing the design of a product in development to identify and implement design changes that decrease cost or increase value to the customer. Engineering-led Cost Reduction: Value analysis, value engineering, and any other process by which teams reduce cost through product design. It has never been more important to get VA/VE right: Inflation cuts into gross margins, Globalization increases competition, creating pricing pressure, The supply chain crisis complicates cost vs. lead time trade offs


8 challenges holding back VA/VE (VAVE) programs (what are some things holding back vave programs, challenges for vave programs):, Over reliance on VA compared to VE, Limited structure, no timelines, Underutilized SMEs (They’re too busy!), Slow or nonexistent implementation, Siloed groups not learning from each other, Incentives not driving the right behaviors, Event-centric, disconnected from day-to-day work, Owned by procurement, little involvement from engineering

Cost reduction targets increase every year, and incremental improvements can no longer close the gap between program performance and expected results. What VA/VE leaders need is a set of new approaches that will close the performance gap and keep programs on track long term.

The 5 pillars of modern VA/VE (VAVE) programs (what are the pillars of vave): People: Proper org structure and prioritization for effective VA/VE, led by engineering; Program Structure & Incentives: Clear VA, VE, & implementation expectations; Idea Generation: Events, processes, and daily routines that produce quality ideas; Idea Execution: Technology and workflows to drive fast, thorough implementation; Data-driven Optimization: Use lessons learned, data, and new technology to drive new value

Summaries of Effective VA/VE (VAVE) Tips (what are the effective vave tips): Prioritize and incentivize both value analysis and value engineering, Dedicate VA/VE champions and SME teams and drive the efforts from engineering, Get incentives, targets, and the program structure right to motivate the team, Augment in-person events with continuous virtual idea generation — make it competitive, Focus your efforts on high-volume programs, early in the process with strong VE, Automate tracking and admin work. Effective VA/VE (VAVE) tips in details: Tip #1: Prioritize engineering-led VA/VE: Most companies rely heavily on procurement and supply chain to drive cost reduction. Getting your engineering team to lead allows for better value engineering and optimized value analysis with higher-quality idea generation and reduced time for implementation. Tip #2: VA/VE champions + SME groups VA/VE will not be a priority unless it becomes part of your engineering team’s core KPIs. Designate Engineering Managers or Chief Engineers as VA/VE champions and make them accountable to a number. While each team will have its own target, you can create a cross-functional, cross-team SME group to share best practices.Tip #3: Get incentives right: Misaligned incentives can easily drive the wrong behaviour. For example: if a cost-down idea is measured based on $ of savings in the first 12 months, but a major program is set to ramp up in Y2, the team is incentivized to hold off on implementation until Y2. Tip #4: Make events competitive (and fun!) Tracking ideas (quantity, quality, and even $ of savings) reveals your top contributors for each event. Some orgs will be able to tap into their team’s competitive side. Tip 5: Do more with less by focusing VA and VE where it matters most in your portfolio

3 events to kickstart idea generation for VA/VE: Live kickoff event (annual): All hands with engineering leadership and VA/VE champions to outline program and plan along with how people, process, and technology fit in, Live VA workshops (quarterly): Events focused on major initiatives. Make it competitive and exciting. Make it fun — crown a champion!, Async VA reviews (monthly): VA/VE champions drive smaller asynchronous events, similar to normal design review with their teams. Virtual VA: Use technology to reduce reliance on in-person events, Prepare a package of 2D and 3D files for your event, Invite your team to review the files and add their ideas, Automatically generate a list of post-event action items. 

Why companies underinvest in VE: “When you’re competing to get [a new product] out there, you don’t have time [for VE]. And so now we get to do it again and again — the value analysis. And it makes us look like heroes on the back side. But unfortunately for value engineering, it makes us look like we’re idiots because we didn’t do it right the first time.”- Todd Diersing, Director of Variable Cost at Dematic 

How to improve your VA/VE (VAVE) program: Step 1: Select one program or product line, and plan all your major VA events - embrace async and virtual.
Designate your VA/VE champions and set their targets. Train your VA/VE champions and their teams on how to do virtual VA events and use automatic tracking for implementation. Step 2: Expand to more programs or product lines. Start integrating value engineering into your core design review process during new product development. Create a cross-functional, cross-team SME group to share best practices across teams. Step 3: Tap into data and insights aggregated from virtual events to improve outcomes. Explore advanced technology like simulation to further augment reviews.

Mainspring Energy - Integrated VE (VAVE): “We did a cost reduction redesign of our product enclosure. We realized we’d landed a 50% cost reduction on that, and our overall design cycle was half the time of prior design cycles. So something that used to take a full year, we got it done in six months. And I personally have never overseen a cost reduction redesign of that scale — in terms of the number of parts and the amount of complexity — and been able to hit a 50% cost reduction on it. -- Rapidly Growing Energy Company Cutting Cost in Half 
