MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): [00:00:00] All right, let's let's get started with some announcements. Hello, welcome. My name is MJ Smith. I am VP of Marketing at CoLab, and I'm gonna be moderating this panel today. I wanna start us off with a couple of quick announcements. The first one is, Our friend Justin Quackenbush from Rivian unfortunately was not able to join us today because he had to go to Mexico for a last minute work trip.

So he is not on a beach, but he couldn't join us today. I I think we can get him here for another event in the future though, so please stay tuned for that. Nonetheless, we have. Four awesome panelists and I think doing some quick back of the napkin math. We probably have about 50 years of combined value analysis and value engineering experience here on this panel.

So I think it's gonna be a really good opportunity to share insights. Second announcement is there will be a q and a at the end of the session here. So if you have questions at any point during the conversation for one of the panelists or all of the panelists, please you drop them in the chat or in the q and a box on Zoom, [00:01:00] and we will either answer them right away or we'll come back to those at the end.

So q and A please participate any time. And then the last last announcement is I do have a crazy idea to, at some point have like a half day virtual event all around value analysis and value engineering with a couple of different speakers. And so if you're interested in speaking, if you're interested in co-sponsoring or if you're interested in attending an event like that, please reach out to me.

Either on LinkedIn, MJ Smith, or mj peters collab software.com is my email. And that is because I just changed my name to a married name, so I haven't updated my email yet. And okay with that let's get into the panel. So we're gonna be talking about high performing value analysis and value engineering programs and what they are doing differently.

And I will introduce our guests in just a minute. However I wanna start it off with a little bit of background on why we decided to do this panel right now. So first is there's been a lot of inflation. I'm sure everybody's felt that in your personal life, but throughout supply chains over the last [00:02:00] kind of 12 to 18 months.

And it's put a lot of pressure on gross margins. And what we are hearing in the market is The traditional, perhaps procurement led cost reduction approach is getting more and more difficult to reach the numbers that you're, you're looking to hit in your business. And so we are seeing companies have a lot of success either coupling that with an engineering led cost reduction program for the very first time, or like doubling down on their, the engineering led piece of their cost reduction program.

So today we've brought together experts that have a lot of experience. To help give you tips for that if that's something that you would like to implement in your own business this year. And then last piece is, it's the beginning of the year, so I think I can still say that. Although it's February lot of people have new fresh cost reduction targets and it's good to get started on those things early.

So we're hoping to give you some actionable tips that you can put into practice right away. Finally CoLab actually does a lot of work with value analysis and value engineering teams. So CoLab lets you host virtual or hybrid value [00:03:00] analysis and value engineering events. You can prep for those events by putting together a package of 2D and 3D files.

You can invite all of your team members to review those designs and actually put their cost ideas and pin them right to the models. And then as you do. It's gonna automatically track everyone's ideas and organize them into a dashboard that you can use for post-event follow up. And one of our panelists, Brian uses CoLab in his business, in their value analysis and value engineering programs.

But we also have panelists that are not using CoLab today. So that's a good segue into meet the panel. So, Brian Stauffer is our first panelist. He is the Global Product Design Manager at Johnson Controls. Johnson Controls has done some really impressive stuff with their V A V E program over the last couple of years, delivering some super ambitious V A V E targets consistently in consecutive.

Corey Sarver is our second panelist. She has a background in both finance and engineering on the value analysis and value engineering side of things. She's [00:04:00] director of the A b E at ent. Todd Diersing is our third panelist. He is director of variable cost productivity at Dematic and has previous experience at Schneider Electric.

Over the course of Todd's career, he has delivered V A V E savings in the billions with a B of dollars for companies. And our final panelist is Adam Keating, who is CoLab's C e o and co-founder who has worked with V A V E teams on putting together our product to support V A V E and also helping make those teams more successful.

So thank you to all of the panelists for participating. All right. Absolutely. I'm going to get us into the first question. I'll shoot this over to Adam to get us started. So high inflation last 12 to 18 months. How do you, how are you seeing that have impacted cost reduction programs and how are you seeing teams adapt?

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): Yeah, I think in general, I know a lot's changed. If you think about 36 months ago we started a pandemic and then the last 12 months we've gone into this place where cost is top of mind in [00:05:00] everything. We talk about it in the tech world, we talk about it in the hardware world, you know, for, it wasn't the number one focus, and I think now it's becoming something that's top of mind for every.

What we're seeing probably most commonly now is that teams aren't sure how best to do that. I mean, we have three experts on the phone here today but the average team isn't sure exactly how and when to do it, and most times it's an afterthought. So what we're hearing from people is that there are these big targets.

They are growing constantly, and the pressure is always. We're hearing it from OEMs that the market wants 'em to have better margins. We're then hearing from suppliers that the OEM is pushing 'em to have a better competitive price and always around us. This equation just doesn't work if we keep doing it the way we've been doing it.

So what we've been seeing, I think now is people try to think about, you know, how can you make this shift more part of the culture? And one of the things that I always talk about, even the acronym VA v, the VA should definitely come first in that acronym because that's where you actually can [00:06:00] save while you're doing it.

I actually build that into your engineering process and not just wait till the product's in market to engineer it out. I think there's a lot of teams making that shift to think about how do I make that continuous integrated into the process where engineers are responsible for it the first time. And not just doing the cleanup work afterwards.

So I think the combination of focus increasing and now bringing that into the program we're really seeing.

Cori Sarver: Yeah, and I'll just jump in there too with, you know, the fact that the high inflation, I mean cost reduction, I mean, it's not a new concept. It's been out there for a very long time, but with the higher inflation here lately, I mean, that's just. More of a need and more of a focus on cost reduction programs, right?

I mean, it's on, on hyperfocus now to, you know, find even more creative ways and more ways to you know, bring that you know, that bottom value to, you know, to our, 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): you know, to our businesses. [00:07:00] As someone who or any of the three of you work in a V A V E program, have you felt the shift? What are some of the things you're, you're noticing in your business?

Brian Stauffer: Yeah, I'll jump in and say for us, it started early last year where, you know, for, again you mentioned it, procurement you know, they're hearing things, the business is hearing things themselves and, and it already gets you thinking, okay, how can we get out in front of this? So we're already working, you know, with a couple of companies that I'm in with what we've done is we've identified those high runner, those high areas of cost.

Certainly we looked out and to see what we're gonna be delivering as far as products. And we looked to see, okay, what are those things so that we can get on those types of cost reduction type activities to get out in front of it before it even gets here. Because if you're just now starting to get into it, you've kind of missed the bus and the people that have already gotten into it, they're gonna eat your lunch as far as your competition goes, they're gonna steal your business [00:08:00] because yeah, you may not get as much margin.

But you're gonna get more, more margin than what these guys are and you'll be able to take less and be able to land the job. 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): I'm actually curious, MJ, just before we jump to the next topic, Brian Stauffer, we talked about this almost three years ago and it was for almost a whole different reason. What, what drove JCI to be like hardcore ahead of this and like get this like continuous repeatable, and it's been 36 months now that I've known you closely and saw this happen Every single.

Globally, what, 12,000? So 

Todd Diersing: for us, I mean, the pandemic really kind of kicked us into gear. With current years, we were able to do our v events at the factory level. So we would actually send people to the factory. We would collect ideas over a couple day period, and we would implement those ideas when we got back.

Because we wanted to continue the cost saving activities throughout the pandemic. I mean, we weren't able to travel to the factor. So CoLab was one of the things that we really looked at hard to see if, if this would suit our needs to [00:09:00] continue our v events throughout the pandemic. And we've actually seen a very, in a very large increase of idea generation based on having more people available during those events, then we could have ever sent to the factory to do that initially.

Right. So it's being a, a larger volume of people being in include. We're getting more ideas being generated and larger cost savings being implemented because of that. 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): I, I think Corey, you had a similar thing, right? You folks using a different platform, but like that whole consistency around like a place to go was like a common theme.

I actually heard from both of you pre panel that because there is somewhere to go, you know, it makes it accessible. I'm wondering, Todd, do you have some place, is there a place people go to put their 

Brian Stauffer: ideas and work through? You mean as a, as far as a repository goes for Yeah. A home, home base for it all.

Yes. Yes, we do. We, we do have that. And again, as everybody is re working remote as as as you guys stated, [00:10:00] yeah, it's, it's it doesn't slow down the opportunities, but brother gives us an opportunity or a place to be able to pull all that information together, sort through it, and then be able to prioritize for implementation.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): All right. I'm gonna switch gears here a little bit. I wanna talk about kind of the role of finance, the role of engineering, and the role of peer procurement in high performing cost reduction programs. And in fact, Todd, I I actually read some of your writing online about how yeah, you often try to pull in marketing and product management as well.

So maybe you can kick us off here. What role do you see different functional groups playing in, in a high performing cost down program? 

Brian Stauffer: Sure. The, the thing for us, the companies I work with procurement, I'm sorry. Product management, own the product. So we don't want to do, as far as the other functions go, we don't wanna do anything that goes contrary to what is helping them sell the product.

But rather, we want to be able to enhance what they are doing. So we listen to them as. [00:11:00] Where we go mine in those opportunities, whether it be in the value engineering for new product releases or the value analysis on the follow up for existing products, we look to them for where to go and we set our, our workshops and idea generations around their product roadmaps so that again, we're not mining in a product that's gonna be obsolete in a year or we're not.

Try to cost out an an option that the customer loves and they don't want us to touch. So we let those guys be kind of the you know, the, the direction for us and how we move forward. As far as an initial start, when we, when we kick off our events, certainly we want all of the functions involved so that we're not doing this in a, in a silo.

So we give plenty of time. We, we bring in the appropriate functions. Finances is critical in the sense. We make sure that all of our cost of bombs quantities, materials you know, part numbers, all of that stuff is out there. It's accurate. So when we do have the event finance is bought into it, [00:12:00] obviously, as, as well too.

We make sure that before anything's even implemented they're on, they're in agreement of what the savings are gonna be and follow through the execution of the process. What we get at the end is, is What the expectations were as well. Engineering and procurement, they, they, they work together in the workshops to support one another.

Obviously engineering is there to provide a design that meets the requirement that product management's looking for or any of the ideas that are generat generated in the workshop. They do that in concert. Procurement that our suppliers and even manufacturing, so that what we are delivering is a cohesive idea that everybody can agree into.

So it's you know, kinda one of those things where those things go hand in hand. We, we do we look for procurement to bring in our suppliers to be able to, Hey, what is the latest and the greatest thing? What are you guys seeing out there that our guys internally don't see? Because. Not all the time, but the majority of the time, a lot of stuff is, is pulled forward as far as legacy products are concerned and [00:13:00] changed and you've got your new products.

So there's a lot of things on the existing drawings that have been used in the past. But the engineers aren't quite aware of it because they don't have the visibility to what's out there for what our suppliers can provide. So we, we use procurement to bring those suppliers in. We also use them to procure our competitors' devices so that when we do hold our workshops and we are generating ideas, we can see what, what's going on out there, or is somebody doing something better?

Can we, can we pull that in? You know, pretty simple stuff. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): Corey, I'm, I'm curious to get your thoughts on this side of things too, since you've kind of been in multiple departments looking at this from different. Yeah, and I mean, I would echo some 

Cori Sarver: of the things that Todd has mentioned already, but one of the things, maybe a little bit different spin in terms of roles is, you know, one of the things you really need to have in order to be more successful is also to have support from the executive levels within, you know, your organization.

So, You know, on finance, on engineering [00:14:00] and being support, not just just a here's a k p, go work in a vacuum to be able to deliver it. But really having the support behind it, you know, influencing their teams in those, you know, in these matrix organizations to to really drive support behind 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): the initiatives.

All right. So next topic here is about flowing your best, the a v E teams. And what I mean by that is especially in big companies with many divisions, one thing we hear a lot is that you'll have pockets of business units that are super high performing when it comes to V A V E and then kind of the rest of the business looking to.

Those high performing pockets of the business saying how can we replicate what they are doing over there? So maybe we'll start, Brian, because JCI has so many different divisions, how are you sort of letting other divisions learn from the success, say, of the chillers division when it comes to value val, value analysis and value 

Todd Diersing: engineering?

So [00:15:00] once we started using CoLab for V A V E, we've actually started looking at sharing our, our experience with other business units within jci. And we've actually got, I think, two other business units on board with, with doing the same similar process. But what we've, we've been trying to do is kind of have this cross-functional team that, that works on the V A V E projects.

And then as we do from, we look at one product to another, we kind of take this similar people and merge them in with the new people. So we have some, some training back and forth between the groups. So a lot of the, the product teams now have been at least involved, if not Kind of sponsoring the events and we are sharing kind of priorities and, and sharing expertise across the different engineering.

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): Todd, Todd and Corey, I'm curious for you, your folks programs, do you have some folks that are sitting outside of each of the programs that are kind of bringing the continuity across each of the products? So I know that was one of the things early on that we saw, you know, Brian, you and I working together, it was a small group and then it became 30, 40 people and you started seeing the [00:16:00] same actors moving to one place and the that was, you know, really important.

Corey, we had a good chat about this before, but you know, who are those champions? Like who's bridging the gap for you folks? Get everyone else bought in a cross program. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): So maybe I'll 

Cori Sarver: jump in there. So for, you know, for our teams, like we've established, you know within my team actually established different commodity leads and then they integrate back and forth within our different business units to really try to bring across that continuity, right?

So we're constant. Interfacing with each other but then having the leads bring, make sure that we have that diligent check through our through our parts and through our product. 

Brian Stauffer: Yeah, the same a lot of what Corey's saying, obviously we've got that as well. I echo that. The, the, the thing that we do when we do hold our workshops we, we bring in engineers where.

The products are very similar to one another so that we can push out those [00:17:00] ideas to the other areas of the business. Also, what we do is we have a, you know, we talk about, you know, what are the top performing pockets doing We, we bring those to light and make that a best practice throughout the company.

So everybody knows this is the standard process and there's boxes that you check when you do certain things to make sure that your commodity managers are involved or certain engineers are involved so that everybody's engaged and it brings those other pockets up to the next level. And I think a lot of that is for us, and what I've seen is.

Making sure you have a process that everybody is using that's consistent and you know, you always have best practices. You always find something, you know, add it to the list of things to, to prep for or in execution or follow up on. You always have those, so in those three areas so that when it comes time to do an event you're doing them consistently you having the participants like you want.

And the outcome should be, you know, to, to the expectations of, of what they're looking. Todd, you said 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): [00:18:00] something that actually is in stroke. The thought in my mind. Have you talked about like showing what's working? One cool thing we actually saw now with Johns controls and a bunch of others was almost making this a little more competitive in a sense.

Not necessarily where it's like team A versus team B, but you know, you take a big product. We actually saw like having smaller groups going off, you started to see who was coming back with the idea. So I think that's one of the things that Brian's team liked for sure, is that it was tallying up and you could see that engineer X had 42 ideas and you know, 14 of those were high quality.

It became a bit of a cultural thing. Like we started to see the same person wanted to do well the next time, and then other people were like, you know, why am I not on that list? And it's a bit of human nature. It's something we never, ever thought. And I know Brian. It was kind of an aha, but we've had that aha now.

Yeah. Several different times. And it's like, it's kind of cool. 

Brian Stauffer: Yeah. 

Todd Diersing: And it's good to have those, there's people that kind of come up with the ideas. They're, they're part of all the different events that we have, so we make sure the same ideas are, are carried across the other [00:19:00] products as 

Brian Stauffer: well. Yeah. And you know, and Corey said this, if you drive it down from the top and why aren't some teams performing or pockets performing, it could.

The drive just isn't there. And you need it driven down from the top through all of the functions to say, and, and maybe it's put in as KPIs for everybody to drive or, or execute X amount of dollars every year. I mean, that really will change your mindset pretty quickly. And you know, there, there are, you know, and that's why you want people from other functions or other areas or divisions coming in to help you out because I've seen it some engineer.

They're good at, at designing idea generation and, and whatnot in these workshops, maybe not so strong. Others, you know, they can compliment one another. So there's, there's various ways of, of, of how you can bring 'em up. And there's various ways of why they're not performing like they should. Nice.

Awesome question. And one other, one other 

Todd Diersing: quick thing I wanted to add there is basically when, when we started doing this, we actually started [00:20:00] increasing our virtual events to a longer period to give people the time to actually spend and, and look at the stuff. A lot of what we saw up front was, you know, when we did this in person, we had maybe four or five people there at, on the site looking at the physical.

And now that we can have 30, 40, 50 people looking at this and focusing on it in their own pace, we were actually getting more ideas generated because of that. So we, we kind of focused in on making sure people had time to do it at their 

Brian Stauffer: leisure. Mm-hmm. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I wanna shift gears again and talk specifically about the point of V A V E event prep.

So kind of two directions we could take this in. The first one, something we hear a lot is that the prep. Feels like a lot of work and it feels like you're starting from scratch every single time, and it sort of deters people from doing as many events as maybe they could be. So any tips to make the a v e event rep feel easier or [00:21:00] be more repeatable?

Yeah. Todd is smiling, so 

Brian Stauffer: I, I'll just say right away, you get out of it what you put into it. You know, it, it's kind of like somebody has a fire drill of our, our product costs too much and we need to hold an event. Let's do it next week. And I've been part of those teams and all it does makes you do for people that are, that know what it takes to, to do one of these things and do it right.

It makes you shake your head and disbelief because a week's worth of time. Isn't enough time to get your PLI suppliers involved? Open schedule on your internal folks. Competitive equipment, making sure that you're reviewing bills and material and, and that's all complete as well. Drawings in place, everything that it takes to make a workshop.

We typically, now that we're back in the plants, we typically take four to six. From the time we say we're gonna kick off and do an event, we'll take four to six weeks to get, make sure we get on everybody's [00:22:00] calendar, do all of the work so that when we're in the workshop, we're not just, everybody just isn't brought up to speed that morning.

They already know what to do. And I see the word repetitive in the first bullet. And I will say that is one of the best things you can do as far as the prep goes. Get your checklist. Make sure you've got the people that you want to have in there and you not, you don't go and you ask that engineer, you go ask the managers, this is what we're trying to do, this is what we're trying to accomplish, who do you want?

And that way you get the best people in there. But the repetitive tasks that you always ask that you go through so that when you have your an event, your event, it's successful. Because if you don't, people may leave, people may get left out or activities may get you. Missed because there wasn't a checklist of things to look at and to do in preparation for the event.

Yeah. And that, that's kind of what we 

Todd Diersing: did early on. We, we created kind of a template that we need, we needed to follow for each event. Looking at, I mean, we started probably about the same time you're saying Todd, about [00:23:00] we're four to six weeks ahead, we're looking at. What's the focus of the event? What products are we gonna look at?

Trying to narrow the scope Yep. Making sure we have the right people involved. So all that work upfront is depe is equally dependent on the outcome of the event, right? So if you, if you don't spend the time upfront, you're not gonna get the, the 

Brian Stauffer: benefit that you should be at the end, right? Yeah. 

Cori Sarver: And, and I would also add maybe in terms of the repetitiveness, right?

You know, I, I tell my team to really. You know? Yes. We also have like a, a, a checklist and the prep that, you know, both Brian and Todd are, are mentioning. You know, we go through those same steps as well. But, you know, I also tell my team, don't be afraid to, you know, put your own spin on it. Right. You know, we've had.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): You know, 

Cori Sarver: teams kind of, you know, mix it up and, and do like a, a price is right, you know, kind of style to it. So kinda taking something, you know, put a little bricka, you [00:24:00] make it your, you know, make it your own and, and put, and have people to give the freedom to make it, that it, it also can help with some of the repetitiveness.

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): Oh, sorry. Go ahead. Oh, 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I was just gonna say, I, I wanna ask a couple of tactical questions because I know that's always super helpful to people. So I'm curious, like, what sorts of things are on your event prep checklist and what, what, like what tool or what format do you use to put that checklist together?

Todd Diersing: So for us, I mean, we use, basically we start with Excel kind of listing out all the participants and what we wanna focus the event on. We have kind of a standardized template that we have inside a CoLab that the file structure, what files we're gonna share make sure we have all the 3d CAD generated and uploaded.

So we kind of tackle it like that.

Cori Sarver: And one of the, you know, and I, I think it was already mentioned before, one, but one of the key things though too, is just making sure that we have the right people and [00:25:00] the, you know, the time in advance as well. Mm-hmm. Right? Because everyone's schedule is, is busy. It's crazy. Just locking that in in advance.

I mean, that's. That's big. If you, if you tried to do it the week before, you know, a lot of people's schedules are already already tied up. So that's, you know, that's one of the, I mean, I know it's relatively simple, but it is one of the key things 

Brian Stauffer: too. Mm-hmm. And, and just to piggyback on my end, what Brian said, we have, it's, it's an Excel document, but we call it the defined worksheet.

It sets the scope, sets the objectives the people, some of the prep work by all of the functions and what they need to bring to the event. Management agrees into, before we even go out and, and pull the people in, that they're gonna support the event. So our suppliers letting them know you know, identification of those suppliers, letting 'em know what to bring in.

And it's not just bringing in your sales guy, it's bringing in their, their expertise as far as their engineers, et cetera, so that their guys can talk to our guys. And we can sit back and let them have their, and I say this cuz I'm an engineer, we [00:26:00] let the engineers have their goofy conversations without us having to try to, you know, make any translations.

So it's making sure that all of the right people are there and the timing for that matter. One, one of the things 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): that I've seen that's actually like most important in the prep, I've seen good events and I've seen bad events across dozens of teams. Now the ones that have a very specific purpose. I've been by far the most successful, not just, you know, get costs out of X product.

It's been looking at like a chassis on a particular vehicle that had a failure before or some kind of recall, and it was like, well, you are gonna make this better because I think that stokes like the engineering, like curiosity and imagination. We did one of these where we had to tear down and I, I did an.

And I initially showed a vehicle that myself and my co-founder had worked on, and I said, go in here and rip this thing to shreds, like tear us in power for whatever bad engineering we did. It kinda got the juices flow. Then I said, here's two areas of your vehicle you've told me are not good. Go into those two specific areas [00:27:00] and focus on, come up with the best idea.

And it's like just getting that competitive nature really a very clear sense of purpose for me was what I started seeing flowing. And I've seen it no matter how they host it, the more specific you are. And I agree with the prep side, Todd, the better the outcome's that we're gonna be, right. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I had somebody reach out in q and a and ask how specifically you're involving suppliers in V A V E events or if it's just the outcome of those events.

And also are you involving certain expectations in your supply agreement that the suppliers will participate in continuous improvement in cost reduction.

Yeah, I, I'll 

Cori Sarver: maybe go first. Supplier workshops is one of our key initiatives. Yeah. Actually for this last past year, last, last, past two years actually. You know yes, we have a lot of expertise within our own, you know, within our own floor walls, but also reaching out to, to our suppliers who have expertise in what they do as well, we've found to be very, [00:28:00] very beneficial.

So, I mean, that's something that we are definitely, definitely having workshops and reviews with our supply case. 

Brian Stauffer: Mm-hmm. Yep. I echo that. One thing to add is we definitely want 'em there because again, like I told you before, we, I've seen a lot of companies that just pull legacy stuff forward to make their new, new launches and they don't really know what they're doing to the supplier at the time, and the supplier being a.

A good supplier will, will give you what, what you're asking for, but that cost is gonna be inflated because you've got high tolerances or you're using expensive materials, or you don't know what else that supplier could bring to the table to help reduce costs. So we want them there in every step of the way.

Whether it's on the V VA side or the VA side, so that we're, we're optimized as much as we can be for the event that we're holding. 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): I think, I think Corey, for yourself is true the opposite direction too, right? Like I watched a presentation from Mike Madeline about some of the seat design work you folks were doing and how, because you had like [00:29:00] re-engineered the back of the seat.

You could cut out, I forget the exact distance in the overall vehicle frame, but it worked out to be so like 50 pounds of the vehicle, right? Yeah. Like this idea. But this was an engineering thing, right? This was an engineering feat. But like if the OEM is not taking you seriously on that, they've got that predefined and now you've got an extra inch in your vehicle that you may not need.

Comfort might not be what this vehicle's for. And like that's a lot of money and a lot of weight that like if you're not in the call, You're not in the process and you're not, like, big thing we talk about is turning suppliers into partners, right? The expertise is there for a reason. I just, that's stuck with me since that presentation, and it goes both directions.

It's, you know, what's going into your seats and then what's going into the vehicle that your seats are going into. So it's a really interesting spot to be as a, as a big tier one for sure.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): All right. Gonna switch gears again follow through on ideas is a topic I want to get into with the panel here. So something that holds a lot of programs [00:30:00] back is that you'll do these workshops and you'll generate the ideas, but then they don't get implemented, which is often the hardest part. So how have you seen teams successfully address that?

Brian Stauffer: So, go ahead Corey. 

Cori Sarver: Sorry Todd, 

Brian Stauffer: go ahead. No, go ahead women ladies first. 

Cori Sarver: Alright, so what I was gonna say to that is really. It takes focus, right? It takes focus and you know, going back to the support from, you know, from leadership back down to the teams to, to make it happen. I mean, and that's actually why my team exists right now, is to put the focus.

A lot of times you run into situations where you have the, let's say the, the main design team is bombarded with a thousand other directions. They're just not putting the focus onto. And so really our team was established to, you know, be that squeaky wheel, be that voice to [00:31:00] kind of keep that out there and in the forefront so that we can ultimately end up delivering that cost savings.

Brian Stauffer: Thank you. Yeah. For, for me You know, if you're really, if you're really topheavy with opportunities and V A V E is just new to you certainly ideas flow and, and the business is ready to jump on 'em right away. But, you know, for, for companies that have matured with V A V E more so on the, on the VA side the, we.

We hold events with a purpose. We always know that there's gonna be one-off ideas from any function and even our suppliers. And, you know, throughout the years if the business case supports it, sure we can always come up with some finances and if, or, or the money and if we can get some you know, functional support, let's jump on it right away.

But we're, if you're, if you're talking about a workshop itself that takes planning and, and product management again, They own the product, and so we support them for what they [00:32:00] want to do. So with that roadmap that they have. They'll tell us when they want to have their workshops. And they could be, they could be, you know, for one, for one area of the product.

It could just be maybe one a year or two a years, depending on, depending on what they want to do. And the other divisions may have the same thing. So we would make up an entire calendar and we would put these, and we would do this the year before, and we would put all of the events that we wanted to have on there so that the business at the higher level could tell exactly what we wanted to do.

We did not have a workshop unless we were gonna follow through for implementation of those ideas. So once we held that, that workshop, those ideas, those business cases were created for all of the ideas we kicked out. The ones we didn't want, we kept the ones that we did. They either went on the a o p planning for the following year, or there was already money set aside in the current year to be able to execute those ideas.

That's, that's one of the things that as a company grows with V A V E, that one of [00:33:00] the things you really wanna do and I know everybody on the panel here, nothing makes, nothing discourages you more than when you give ideas, whether you're internal to the company or you're at a supplier and. They're coming up, you know, mj, you said it.

Are you expecting suppliers to come up with ideas and Yes, we expect them to, but one of the things that frustrates 'em is when you give them I, or when they, you take their ideas, you do nothing with it, and then you want ideas from them again the next year, and they're like, I'm not gonna do that until you give me, or until you do the ideas that we gave you last year.

And it's, and it's demoralizing on the internal side because no matter what function it is, they're not gonna wanna come to your event just because you didn't do anything with the ideas that they gave you. I'm 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): actually, I'm really interested in what you just said there. So like I think the planning ahead is like super critical and like if you think about a lot of that, like the good programs have these schedules.

If you think about sort of like more the value engineering, the more fluid part, like I think about that needing to really be a continuous cultural mindset [00:34:00] shift integrated in your key processes. That stuff is like the equivalent of software development, you know, bugs or you know, an injection we'll call it.

And those things tend to be more agile. Have you seen anything work or the things that pop up that are ideas or do they get, you know, punted off till later? Cause that's one of the things that I'm really curious about helping va, VA leaders with is like the VA part is definitely getting better. The VA part from my assessment across the industries is, is fairly weak in general.

I think we could be doing a better job, but I think it's that point, right? You, you get an idea, nothing happens with it, so why even suggest it? How, how have you thought about that from the injection front on more the value engineering 

Brian Stauffer: front? You know I'll go back to the value analysis side when we have our workshops.

Again, going back to the, the the scope and the agenda of what we're trying to accomplish. We even said, I mean, we. The majority of the ideas are gonna come off on the existing product, but we also [00:35:00] want those ideas for the next generation of device, and we will deliberately put them in a different bucket than what we do for the existing product.

So we, and we have those in the backlog so that, again, depending on the product roadmap of when this next generation of products gonna come out. The guys that are generating those ideas, or the people that are generating the ideas, they. Yeah, I'm not gonna do anything with these ideas until another year and a half, two years down the road.

So we, we bucket those in a different way so that when we do have the the, the value engineering side of it for the new product releases, we get those, we, we, you know, obviously we, we bring in the supplier, we do everything that you, that you just said, Adam and. I, I'd love to take the credit for this, for this statement, but I can't, but it's why is there never enough time and money to do it right the first time, but plenty of time and money to do it two and three times over.

I wish I could take the credit for that, but I can't. But that's the way value engineering is because the time to market when you're competing with your competitors to get [00:36:00] it out there, you don't have time. I've seen it so many times. They don't have time to do it, and so now we get to do it. And again and again, the value analysis and, and look makes us as far as v A v E guys makes us look like heroes on the backside.

But you know, un unfortunately, for the value engineering stuff, it makes us look like we're idiots because we didn't do it right the first time. Yeah, it's a really hard 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): cultural one. I won't name names, but I've definitely talked to a couple of directors and VPs in different companies. Not on this call that have told me they leave cost in to engineer it out because their KPIs only care about va, which, you know, if you think about it in a broad, macro world, like think about sales, think about anything, whatever you set your KPIs to, it does direct behavior and I think you're a very VA focus.

I don't know, it's something for a later time. But I'd love to talk to you all about how do we change that culturally. Cuz the problem is you're not, it's not going to work in five years because the OEMs are gonna want something crazy. It costs everything's going [00:37:00] up. You're not gonna have time to save it later.

It 

Brian Stauffer: just won't be possible. Right. Well, you know, real quick, Adam, and, and we can move on. One of the things that always gets me when you talk about heart tool change a year after you just released a product and the manufacturing guys go ballistic because here's a brand new tool, then now we're gonna cut up or make different, or make changes to, and it's only a year old and the amount of money is, you guys know hard tools.

It's, it's expensive. And that in and of itself right there would tell you why you should put your emphasis on the VA side of it. Mm-hmm. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I actually got a question that that ties in nicely to that last point, Todd. Maybe I'll throw this one out there to Brian to start, which is you'll often come up with ideas that are not just impacting the bomb costs.

They'll also impact. Labor or overhead or tooling as an example. So this person's asking how are you kind of simulating or evaluating the fully burdened rate versus just [00:38:00] looking at the bomb costs so that you don't you know, get Yeah. That doesn't come back to bite you? Yeah, I mean, 

Brian Stauffer: I, 

Todd Diersing: for one thing, I mean, like I said, we, we include cross-functional team when we do our events, so we make sure we have representatives from all the different factories that build the product.

So if there is tooling changes or things like that, I mean, we could potentially have a tooling change in one factory not the other. So we make sure that's kind of brought up during the discussions and make sure that we, we implement all the way through from ideation to the factory level as well. Just one other quick thought on the follow through here.

I think it's been brought up kind of a couple times here now, and it seems. The focus has to come from upper level management, right? It's gotta be driven from the top to kind of make sure that we're gonna follow through and we're gonna make sure that we implement the savings that we've accrued. A lot of times, like I said, Things get kind of deferred to later on.

But we've been kind of focusing on making sure that we evaluate all the ideas, we prioritize them, and we kind of pick the, the high runners first, right? [00:39:00] The biggest cost savings we implement first. And then as we kind of been doing this for a couple years, we see that, you know, now we're left with the smaller things.

So you need a lot more ideas now than what you did initially because you've got the big cost savings up. Alright, so I think the focus again on the back end is just as important as it is on the front end of the prep as.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): Flipping over to the next topic very related, but idea management. One thing we hear a lot is like the same idea will keep coming up again and again in consecutive workshops. So curious what strategies you've seen for managing ideas across multiple workshops and trying to kind of eliminate duplication of effort.

So, so for us, I 

mean, 

Todd Diersing: we have leaders. We have v a v engineering teams that basically run the events for us, and they, they're in charge of all the va v events across all the products. So they're the ones kind of facilitating [00:40:00] and making sure that, you know, ideas we were captured in one are carried over into other products as well, along with our engineering and product management 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): teams too.

Yep. I echo with that. Same, 

Brian Stauffer: you know, when it comes to the same ideas coming up over and over again I, I think you'll still have it regardless, because that's where people's minds go to. I mean, you set somebody outside this room and, and we're looking at the same product. You'll come up with the same ideas.

Now, whether somebody's trying to. The same idea through on an event over and over and over, and it's coming from that one person. Again, that's where the expectation for the workshop needs to be identified so that if you're supposed to stay out of an area or you're not gonna change this area of the product, it's very clear we're not, we're not going there.

Or if somebody feels like this is a great idea, let the numbers speak for that idea. What's that thing worth as far as cost savings? What's it cost to implement? [00:41:00] And let the business decide whether they want to do it. And that's a good way to say, you know, oh, hey, that idea came up before, here's the results of it.

We're staying out of it. And that ought to be part of the prep work when you go into your workshops as far as that, that pre-work goes, and that way the expectation is set. I think one thing I've 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): seen actually is back to what you said, there're taught on the prep work. I've seen teams like almost draw into the focus areas of design with scope of what's on the table.

Yep. One of the things product wise that we've done intentionally, you know, not for cost production initially. Was give con context. So when you leave a piece of feedback in Coli, it's right on a 3D model. So if I go in and look at, you know, a flange and I'm gonna suggest something, I might see little pins.

So I already know that it's there, like the context is there. And I think that's worked really well for teams that are thinking about it. It's like the context is there. Yeah. We've seen that actually spurred the next idea. Right. Someone's already thought about this, that doesn't work. But like, I think just having that, like back to the original question, [00:42:00] mj, about like a place, I think everyone's kind of got that.

I think the second part is how do you make that digestible? Because what I hear from other teams is that it's like there's a lot of stuff and it's hard to read through and it's a big list. I won't get into lessons learned on this call today but I've, reprogramed ever talked to, tells me to do lessons learned at the end and.

That's it. And then they make the same mistake on the next program cuz no one's actually read lessons learned and not integrated. I think there's something similar here where we can like really just draw attention to it and just make it almost effortless, you know, for that person to think about once you get into the lower level stuff.

Right. I agree. There's scoping and boundary. There's some of the lower level stuff. I see it every single time I sit in on one and it's just not productive. High quality. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I have an interesting audience question, which it sounds like this person has run into cases where a new idea is actually just like the undoing of a previously implemented idea.

And so this person's wondering, like, when that comes up as an idea, do you just [00:43:00] rule it out or do you look at it? Ha does anyone have experience with. Well, I think when you're 

Cori Sarver: sometimes in you know, some of these workshops, right? Y you know, there's the ideation and there's sometimes search create, there's creative creativity.

You know, you don't wanna rule it out, you know, if it's, you know, if it's, again, part of the scope. So, so far you don't wanna rule it out, but really it then comes within the follow up, right? Very quickly after we have our workshops, we. You know, a dispositioning, right? We, we look through and if there's something that comes up where, yeah, oh, hey, we put this in and then we took this out, we, we start to really disposition it.

What was, what's the key driver? Is there something new that's been added? Maybe there's been economic change, right? An economic condition change that now that business case looks a bit different. So I think some. You know maybe in the workshop comes up. But then you know, really with the following up and the dispositioning is really where, you know, you kind of do a little bit more of 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): a filtering process.

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): [00:44:00] Interestingly, I saw this happen recently with a customer, their, their customer had asked for something specifically, had asked for something, and the team actually implemented that thing verbatim. And then a VP saw it later on down the road and was kind of like, whoa, whoa, whoa. Why are we building all this complexity into the product that's gonna cost us a lot of money?

And their answer was, customer wanted X. And he went a couple levels deeper and said, what did they really want? And what they really wanted was risk mitigation that this component wouldn't break. So he actually said to them, go back to the customer, tell them that we are taking this out because it's worked for the last 20 years, and we're not adding this complexity, which is actually gonna have more risk.

So it came from the customer as an idea to save cost on warranty claims, and then went fully back around to the VP saying, no. And I actually thought it was brilliant. Like it's, it's a, it's a hard stance to take. Yeah. Not ideal to get in that position. I thought it was [00:45:00] cool to see just like direct, like, we're not doing this, we're not making co products more complex, just because it sounds like the right idea and we've done it.

They ripped it out. I was like, yeah, I respected that, 

Brian Stauffer: honestly. Yeah, absolutely. It, it, you know, and a lot of it is nobody knows your products better than you do, and if your customer's telling you what to do, then I dunno, I, I would, I would question what they were or I would show them. What we're doing is the best way to do it.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): All right. This one I think has actually come up a couple of times just organically in discussion, but wanted to specifically ask the question about how you make V A V E A priority. Something that we've heard a lot is that sometimes it's sitting with an engineering team that has multiple different priorities and it's just easy to kind of say we're gonna do V A v, and another time I got other stuff to work on.

So how do you make sure enough work gets done in the area of V A V E to actually achieve 

Brian Stauffer: target? [00:46:00] Top down. I heard, I mean, you heard it before. It's, it's, it's tough and and it, it's, it's so simple, but it's true. I mean, again, you push a rope if you're not trying to if you're not trying to get the support from the top.

So for me, And, and all, you know, working with, working with companies and driving V A V E opportunities, it's making sure that the business at the high level is is pushing this and they make time for, for it. Because one thing is for sure, we're not gonna go higher. Most companies won't go higher. A whole bunch of more engineers to do V A V E work, they're gonna pull from their existing pool.

So they've, they've gotta, they've gotta shoehorn it in there some way. So they've gotta, they've gotta figure out a. To be able to balance not only the M P D stuff and sustaining stuff along with your, your V A V E activities. So that, that has to come from upper management to be able to drive it down and hopefully you meet your targets that way.

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): I got a contentious question. The top of the company says it's [00:47:00] important. They give you a big target. Top of the company doesn't really truly believe that in earnest. I see this time and time again different. It does not just va, but in different goals. And then there's not really a push for it to happen.

So people don't know if it's actually important, but there's a scary goal just sitting there. I know a couple of teams right now in this exact spot. So the C-Suite says, Important. Everyone in between is kind of like, I'm not sure. And then the engineers are like, I don't know, and they're not moving. Like how do you help tie that back together?

If you're someone that's in a role, you know, you folks have the ability to make that call. You're a manager though. That's like trying to hit it, but no one else shows up to the event. Nobody cares. Like what do you do? How do you even change the culture to fix that? Or can. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): Yeah. Well, 

Cori Sarver: I mean, it definitely is a cultural issue, right?

If that's not happening and, and I think one of the things that we've done internally to. Let's say make sure that there's communication, because really what's breaking down there is [00:48:00] communication. C-Suite wants this. It's not happening at the, you know, at the working level. So one of the things that we do is within our teams is that we have we have monthly touchpoints with leadership to say, Hey, This is what we all are working towards.

This is where we stand and go through the roadblocks that we may be having. So having that additional communication, it's not just doing the workshop workshops or idea generation, but then this leads 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): into the follow through. Mm-hmm. 

Cori Sarver: And the communication aspect of it to ensure that, you know, we are making, you know, the plans and are executing out the way that, you know, we want 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): to be hitting the deliverable.

Brian Stauffer: Go 

ahead. 

Todd Diersing: For us, I mean, we, we have targets we try to hit every year. I mean, they're given out from the upper level management as far as what 

Brian Stauffer: we, we should be expecting this year. 

Todd Diersing: And it's part of people's goals all the way down to the working level that actually does the implementation of this stuff.

V a V is one of our high [00:49:00] targets, so I mean, it's one of our highest priorities for as work's coming in based on, we kind of balance 

Brian Stauffer: that between new N P I work and. 

Todd Diersing: Sustaining work, but we kind of make sure that there's enough priority on, on the the 

Brian Stauffer: V A B E side to keep continuing to get thing, implement.

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): Got a question from the audience which is basically in, in smaller leaner teams, you often have the a v E left to you know, a team that's already working on other priorities. A small group that's assigned as an extracurricular or a ho Ocean Connery project. Have you seen success with that kind of structure or are you all finding your success with dedicated staff having a primary responsibility to focus on the a.

Ours is more 

Todd Diersing: dedicated, I would say. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): I, I was gonna say that we've, you know, 

Cori Sarver: you know, I, go ahead. Ebbs and flows around. You know, I'll say the circle of the work history. I think we've had, have done it both ways where we, you know, [00:50:00] didn't have, and it was the, you know, the person doing multiple, you know, wearing multiple hats.

And I think we shifted to this structure because it. Put a focus. Right. It does allow for the focus to be on it. It is. And that's why we, you know, we shifted to this is because it just wasn't getting the attention. There just wasn't the, that that squeaky wheel to make sure that we implement and are infiltrating into the cost reduction side.

So, I mean, I, I mean, I think we're seeing success because we do have that focus 

Brian Stauffer: structure. Mm-hmm. And you'll go so far with the. A leaner team or a smaller team on the smaller, quicker projects. But when you need testing or you need redesign, or you need tooling made, yeah, that's where the rubber hits the road on, on the big savings type projects.

And that's where you'll, you'll get bogged down in success. Or it will greatly be slowed down because you just don't have that support. So yeah, a dedicated team. Whether it's [00:51:00] in there 100% of the time, or they know they've gotta be able to support four or five workshops and the the project's coming afterwards, those will be the ones that will give you the, you know, that will drive the projects home for you.

Yeah, 

Todd Diersing: I'd say for us, I mean, it's part of our strategy to, to make sure v a v is part of the process. So, I mean, it's not like an afterthought for us. We're, we're purposely looking at it upfront and trying to drive as much 

Brian Stauffer: savings as we can. Yep. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): So I did end up asking most of the questions as they came up because I thought it was helpful to add them in in the context of discussion.

I have a couple of more that I didn't get to while while we were talking, but for anyone listening, these are your speakers up here on the slides. So feel free to go find 'em on LinkedIn and connect also if you're interested in like poking around at what CoLab might be able to do for your B A V E program, we have an.

Product tour on our website. So if you scan the QR code over there you can actually click around inside of CoLab and, and see what it's like. But I will go back and pick out some of these questions that I didn't get a chance to ask. One is [00:52:00] about Using simulation or computer aid analysis as part of the a v e and they gave a specific example of like if you had to change the thickness and you wanted to analyze how it might require adding another gusset.

Are you, are you using change simulation with f e a in your programs and, and how does that look like? 

Brian Stauffer: Oh yeah, absolutely we do. As a matter of fact, those guys from the simulation team, Here's some of the ideas that are generated. It kind of spawns other ideas from those guys. So if it's not generated in the event and these guys in simulations are working on it after the fact, they'll w they'll, they'll come to ideas, they'll come up with ideas for us to take a look at, just because they, you know, they, they know what the parameters are that, you know, for testing or durability or whatnot.

They'll, they'll, they know what those are so they can do those simulations and it took us a while to dial. On the simulation side, how accurate that information is. But if you have it, if you have it pretty well dialed in, [00:53:00] your, your success rate for opportunities of savings goes up and your reduction of, of testing and whatnot goes down as well.

So it's a good, it's a good thing to do. We, we use it. 

Todd Diersing: Yeah, we definitely do as well. I mean, we do structural analysis f e a analysis. I mean, anytime we're looking at reducing material thicknesses. So it's definitely a key element for us. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): And then the other question is specifically for Brian and Adam.

For people that are leveraging CoLab and portals to bring suppliers in as part of the V A V E process, how have you had success getting the suppliers to buy in to using the platforms you wanna use? It's a really 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): interesting one. So I guess for folks that are listening for first time portals is something new that we launched in CoLab.

So if you think about a virtual workspace portals is like a a little view into part of that where what happens in the portal. You know, your supplier can see, but they can't see anything else in the other portals or your workspace. But if you're in the workspace, you see it all [00:54:00] roll back. So the reason we built that was so that you're doing rfq.

You get three suppliers with the same thing. They see their own pieces. You see it all. The same has been true for cost reduction. We're only really just now scratching the surface of how portals can really supercharge that. We've done it through workspace. Before, but the problem with the workspace is that everybody sees everything, or you gotta duplicate the data to hide it.

With portals, you can have a portal opened up for a supplier. They see the same thing you see. They just don't see all the feedback and ideas and other information on the file. But if Todd's team was my supplier, Todd could see the model, see the drawing, whatever he leaves feedback. I see it on my model with everything.

So that's kind of like the new model we're going after. It works really any of those use cases. But one of the cool things that allows you to do is it let you kick design data out in flight so you can punt it off to a supplier right away. You can work with them on it without actually even being done, right.

It could just be an idea. You can pull 'em in before it's finished. And we're starting to see team pull [00:55:00] all of this forward because they can get people involved. So if you're interested in talking about portals, please reach out. It's something that I I have lots of fun demoing these. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): Brian, any other comments from you on how you've gotten your suppliers buy-in?

Todd Diersing: So right now, I mean, we're not using CoLab with our suppliers. It's just for internal use. So once we get an idea, we communicate separately with the suppliers. Hmm. 

Brian Stauffer: Before we implement the, the ideas. 

MJ Smith (VP of Marketing at CoLab): We were speaking, we'll, we'll release a case study in a couple of weeks here, but we were speaking with a customer recently that intended to use the product collab just for their engineering team.

And they had like 30 people in mind who might use it, and now they've got 85 people using it. So we try to make it really easy for suppliers to just jump in there and, you know, make it easy to learn and, and just do it and, and try things. So I think that helps. Alright, I wanna get everybody out of here on time, so thank you so much.

Brian. Thank you Corey, and thank you Todd for participating today. And I hope that everybody got something out of this that you can [00:56:00] go and implement in your V A D E programs. Thank you, 

Adam Keating (CEO of CoLab): folks. All right. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for having us. Thanks for having me. All righty. Take care everyone. See you guys.

